Once upon a time... (Don't worry we'll get to that one real quick.) Throne of Eldraine is almost here! We're eating food and going on adventures and meeting all sorts of interesting fairy-tale inspired friends, and apart from the exciting flavor there's a bunch of power in the set waiting to be released on the Standard format. With four sets also leaving Standard this is one of the biggest Standard shakeups in a long time, meaning Throne of Eldraine is likely to make a huge impact! So without further ado, here are my loves and hates for Throne of Eldraine ! Hate - Once Upon A Time Where better to start! Don't worry, despite what the internet may be telling you, every game of Magic until the end of time in every format isn't going to start with the words "cast Once Upon a Time ." Yes, Once Upon a Time is a free spell, and yes, free spells tend to be problematic. However, this is not just a free Ancient Stirrings . Once Upon a Time costs two mana, which is what you're going to be paying for the card the majority of the time. It also only finds creatures or lands, further limiting its usage. So we need to be playing a Green deck with a good amount of creatures that doesn't mind drawing random Impulse s over the course of a game. Typically creature heavy decks tend to be aggressive or tempo-based, meaning spending two mana to not affect the board is a death-knell; think about what a tempo black hole a card like Discovery // Dispersal is. So that's the bad part, what about the payoff when it's actually in our opening hand? We get to cast Commune with Dinosaurs off of our turn one Temple of Malady . That's it. Sure, Commune with Dinosaurs is great and early game cantrips help to sculpt your gameplan and make your deck more consistent, but at the cost of putting what's essentially a Leyline into your deck. And there's the rub, Once Upon A Time has more in common with Leyline of Void than Ancient Stirrings . For some broken Modern or Legacy decks that are intensely interested in their opening hands and not much more, sure Once Upon a Time is a reasonable option. For fair Green decks in Standard that are slow enough to not mind casting an Impulse ? Sure. But the default thought on this card is going to be "does my deck want this card?" not "I'm playing Green so I'm playing four Once Upon A Time !" Once Upon A Time will see play, but the hype around this card is astoundingly overblown. Love - Murderous Rider There's really not much to say here. The adventure cards are pure card advantage and Swift End would have been playable if it was just a instant with no extra text. Hero's Downfall was a format defining card when it was last legal and two life is a paltry price to pay for a Hero's Downfall that always cantrips into a spell. Sure a 2/3 lifelink Knight isn't the best creature of all time for three mana, but it's literally just a free bonus on top of your Hero's Downfall . Furthermore, if you're playing a matchup where you don't need removal spells, a 2/3 is far better than a dead card. Murderous Rider is one of the best cards in the set for Standard play. However good you think it is, I promise you it is better. Love - Bonecrusher Giant It's a little weaker on the front side and stronger on the back side, but everything I said about Murderous Rider applies to Bonecrusher Giant as well. Kill a creature, take your card advantage, and then cast a creature that may have been playable even without the adventure side. While Shock is certainly weaker than Hero's Downfall , you can also look at it as Bonecrusher Giant having a sort of pseudo-haste as the Shock can always go upstairs when there are no good targets. Again one of the best cards in the set; even if you like it you're probably underrating Bonecrusher Giant . Love - Savvy Hunter Okay, let's talk food. In some ways, food is similar to energy from Kaladesh in that it's somewhat parasitic. Cards that make food or care about food are mostly only going to work with other cards that make and care about food. It's certainly a better design than energy because you can interact with the food tokens and they can do other things (like trigger artifact or sacrifice synergies), but for the most part food cards are going to want to stick together. Making food can't be too difficult and there has to be something very good to do with your food. How about drawing cards... is that good? Savvy Hunter is food's Tireless Tracker , so far looking like the best reason to want food tokens in your deck. Its 3/3 body is already respectable and it can help with food creation as well, but it's going to get turbo charged once you start adding other food cards to the mix. Oko,Thief of Crowns looks very good with Savvy Hunter in play, while Gilded Goose helps to cast either card on turn two while also providing a great enabler and payoff for food synergies. But make no mistake; if there's a food deck, Savvy Hunter will be the most important card in the deck. Love - Slaying Fire Here's a real easy one. Mono-Red Aggro is always a deck. Slaying Fire is essentially a better Flame Javelin . Flame Javelin was a format defining card for Mono-Red when it was legal in Standard. Slaying Fire will be too. That's it. Hate - Questing Beast Haven't we heard this song before? Questing Beast is cut from the same cloth as other Green mythics like Nullhide Ferox - it's big, it's Green, and it has a lot of words on it; So many words that it evokes a feeling of "how could they print this!" However like Nullhide Ferox , Questing Beast will see some play but not be anything close to what it's hyped to be right now. Yes, haste is very good. Yes, it can't be chump blocked by tokens and random small creatures. Yes vigilance and deathtouch are nice additions. However, that's mostly it. The planeswalker redirection text is a nice touch, but if you're in a position to kill their planeswalker with your haste creature you're already in a good spot regardless; Questing Beast doesn't help you get out of the bad spot where you can't get through. Nor does it provide much aid when your opponent has a good board presence. And that's the crux of Questing Beast - it's just a medium sized idiot. It still dies to removal spells, it still can get stalled on a gummed up board, it still trades with other midsized creatures for no benefit, it has no relevant creature types or synergies, and it's in the awkward spot at four mana of being a bit too big for aggressive decks and a bit underwhelming for midrange decks. It's also legendary, which can be a significant deck-building constraint. Questing Beast will certainly see play across it's time in Standard, but its bark is much mightier than its bite. Love - Acclaimed Contender There's a lot of tribal support for knights in Throne of Eldraine , but tribal decks often need more than just good attackers and blockers. Enter Acclaimed Contender . If knights is going to be successful deck in Throne of Eldraine Standard, it will be on the back of Acclaimed Contender . A sort of Militia Bugler / Goblin Ringleader hybrid card, Acclaimed Contender provides card advantage and board presence all together in one neat, easy to cast package. A 3/3 tribally relevant body is no joke, and Acclaimed Commander is not only always going to find you a spell but it's likely to be a good one. Knight decks will clearly be full of other Knights, but there are also some sub-synergies between knights and equipment that Acclaimed Contender helps to bring together as well. Acclaimed Contender is the truth. Love - Smitten Swordmaster While we're on the subject we may as well ride the knight train (horse?) for a minute. Smitten Swordmaster is secretly one of the best knight payoffs in the set. Adventure cards are easy to undervalue as a whole because they're so different than what we've seen before, but this is essentially a decent 2-drop creature that also has a one-mana Lightning Helix or better built in to it. Reach is always an important thing for aggressive decks to have, and being able to adventure Smitten Swordmaster on turn four or five for a ten point life drain and then also play it as a creature immediately is quite powerful. Child of Night isn't that far below the bar and the adventure potential here is huge. It's also awesome to bring it back with Order of Midnight so you can use it again! Love - Wintermoor Commander While the official knight "lord" Inspiring Veteran is , most of the good knight cards seem concentrated in . Wintermoor Commander is another powerful knight that is more than the sum of its parts. High toughness deathtouch creatures are phenomenal and Wintermoor Commander makes blocking hell for your opponent. In any sort of creature-based matchup Wintermoor Commander is going to be awesome, and if your opponent has a lot of removal it is going to die just like Inspiring Veteran would so there's not much difference there either. Knights is looking better and better to take over the mantle from Vampires as Standard's tribal aggro deck of choice. Hate - The Great Henge I want to like this card, I really do. Making mana, drawing cards, gaining life... I love all of these things! But the upfront cost is just too high. Even with a 4 power creature in play this still costs five mana, which is going to come down as probably one of the last cards in your hand. The Great Henge has the Vanquisher's Banner problem of just being too expensive and not effecting the board enough to be an engine. We're trained by Ghalta, Primal Hunger to think this will count the total power of all of our creatures (which would be much better) but that is not the case. Also Ghalta was a perfect last card to play because it was a big and game ending curve topper, The Great Henge needs more creatures in hand to make great. I hope I'm wrong, but this one's probably best suited for Commander. Love - Shimmer Dragon Speaking of Commander, you may be asking yourself "what the hell is a Shimmer Dragon ? I don't see this one in the set?!" Well, you'd be correct. Shimmer Dragon is not in Throne of Eldraine proper, but rather in the brawl decks that are a complementary product to the set. However... surprise! While Shimmer Dragon is not in booster backs, it is fully legal in Standard and for all intents and purposes a real Magic card. And you know what? Shimmer Dragon is really powerful! There's already a good precedent for large, hexproof fliers being good and Shimmer Dragon goes beyond that to provide a card draw engine too. This is all of course contingent on having a good number of artifacts in play, but if your deck meets the criteria then Shimmer Dragon is a phenomenal top end card. Shimmer Dragon may not make an impact immediately, but there is serious potential here if there's a Blue deck interested in playing a lot of artifacts. Love - Faeburrow Elder When evaluating new cards it's always important to look at the floor of card as well as the ceiling, because what a cards fail state is will usually define its playability. Well Palladium Myr with Vigilance is quite the fail state and Faeburrow Elder threatens to be quite a bit more. There's no shortage of amazing top-end cards to ramp into in Standard, ranging from six mana planeswalkers to Hydroid Krasis and friends, and Faeburrow Elder can do some serious damage if you're willing to skew your deck toward it. Even in a three color deck Faeburrow Elder is going far above and beyond what you'd normally get for three mana, making it a very impressive card. Faeburrow Elder with an Oath of Kaya , Teferi, Time Raveler , or Gruul Spellbreaker in play is quite the card. Love - Fires of Invention Our last card of the day is perhaps one of the most interesting. In a lot of ways Fires of Invention is reminiscent of Wilderness Reclamation . It's a four-mana enchantment that can pay for itself immediately and then give you a big mana boost under a certain set of restrictions. While Wilderness Reclamation demanded you play instants, Fires of Invention demands big sorcery speed four- and five-mana cards. Sound like any midrange decks you know? Fires of Invention is going to pose some pretty interesting deck-building questions, but as long as you can fuel the fires and have enough things to do with it, there's huge potential here. A Lot of Love I think that may have been the highest ever ratio of Loves to Hates in a Love/Hate article that I've done, and even the hates we more so based on tempering extreme hype on cards that are playable but not amazing. I guess that means I'm excited about this set! And it's a good thing to, because next week I get my first crack at it! Hark! We cordially invite you to watch the #MTGEldraine Early Access Streamer Event on September 24. ? pic.twitter.com/3qunvXd8mi — MTG Arena (@MTG_Arena) September 17, 2019 I'll be doing my usual ten new Standard brews on my stream during the official MTG Arena Throne of Eldraine Early Access Event, and then writing about them all in detail next week with grades and reports on how they did and what to expect from them in the future. Rotation is here and it's time to get excited about Standard again!
It's pretty incredible how much of an impact tiny enablers can have in Magic . Little one mana commons that do a bunch of things to tie your deck together and end up being more impactful than the most expensive of mythic rares. Faithless Looting just got banned, Ancient Stirrings is still one of the best cards in Modern, and now we have another one that is tearing up every format from Vintage to Pauper. When Modern Horizons was being previewed there were plenty of things to be excited about; two-mana planeswalkers! A new Force of Will and Timetwister ! Canopy lands! But history may end up showing us that one of the most important cards in the set was actually just a little one-mana artifact that could do it all. Time Stamps : Match 1 - 00:10:37 Match 2 - 00:54:19 Match 3 - 01:11:17 Match 4 - 01:50:55 Match 5 - 02:18:28 Jeskai Saheeli Combo | Modern | Jim Davis Creatures (6) 2 Snapcaster Mage 4 Felidar Guardian Planeswalkers (10) 2 Narset, Parter of Veils 4 Saheeli Rai 4 Teferi, Time Raveler Instants (15) 1 Lightning Helix 2 Spell Pierce 4 Force of Negation 4 Lightning Bolt 4 Path to Exile Sorceries (4) 4 Serum Visions Artifacts (4) 4 Arcum's Astrolabe Lands (21) 1 Snow-Covered Mountain 1 Snow-Covered Plains 2 Snow-Covered Island 1 Glacial Fortress 1 Hallowed Fountain 1 Sacred Foundry 1 Steam Vents 1 Sulfur Falls 4 Arid Mesa 4 Flooded Strand 4 Scalding Tarn Sideboard (15) 1 Supreme Verdict 2 Rest in Peace 2 Stony Silence 2 Geist of Saint Traft 2 Timely Reinforcements 1 Dispel 1 Engineered Explosives 1 Ashiok, Dream Render 1 Celestial Purge 1 Narset, Parter of Veils 1 Wear // Tear Buy This Deck Export text format While it's amusing that it took my trying a four color version of the deck to add Arcum's Astrolabe to the Saheeli Cat combo, just seeing how it interacted with the entire deck made it a clear addition to the normal three color version of the deck. The most important thing in a deck like Saheeli Combo (a combo deck based around the infinite combo with Saheeli Rai and Felidar Guardian) is making sure your combo pieces have other applications in a normal game of Magic beyond just comboing. Felidar Guardian is great for flickering other planeswalkers and Saheeli Rai can copy Snapcaster Mage for some value, but we want more. We also don't want to have to resort to subpar two-mana enabler cards like Wall of Omens or Spreading Seas . Enter Arcum's Astrolabe . We can Arcum's Astrolabe it with Saheeli Rai to make her -2 ability into "draw a card." We can flicker it with Felidar Guardian to make his enters the battlefield ability "draw a card." We can bounce it with Teferi, Time Raveler whenever we want to draw two cards. All of this at the slight cost of a few more fetchlands and less pain from shocklands. While this league wasn't ideal, I took a slightly updated version of this deck to a PTQ yesterday and just missed Top 8 with a 5-2 record. The deck is consistent, powerful, and great at grinding, while also being able to kill people on turn four. It's hard to understate how potent that is in such a wide open Modern format. If you love your Snapcaster Mage s and Lightning Bolt s and long for the days of Splinter Twin , give Jeskai Saheeli a spin! Updated list: Jeskai Saheeli Combo | Modern | Jim Davis, PTQ 13th Place Creatures (6) 2 Snapcaster Mage 4 Felidar Guardian Planeswalkers (10) 2 Narset, Parter of Veils 4 Saheeli Rai 4 Teferi, Time Raveler Instants (15) 2 Lightning Helix 2 Spell Pierce 3 Force of Negation 4 Lightning Bolt 4 Path to Exile Sorceries (4) 4 Serum Visions Artifacts (4) 4 Arcum's Astrolabe Lands (36) 1 Snow-Covered Mountain 2 Snow-Covered Island 2 Snow-Covered Plains 1 Glacial Fortress 1 Hallowed Fountain 1 Sacred Foundry 1 Steam Vents 1 Sulfur Falls 3 Arid Mesa 4 Flooded Strand 4 Scalding Tarn 1 Supreme Verdict 2 Rest in Peace 2 Stony Silence 2 Geist of Saint Traft 2 Timely Reinforcements 1 Dispel 1 Engineered Explosives 1 Ashiok, Dream Render 1 Celestial Purge 1 Narset, Parter of Veils 1 Wear // Tear Buy This Deck Export text format
It's pretty funny now that people were mockingly calling Modern Horizons "Commander Horizons" in an attempt to make fun of Wizards of the Coast for making a Modern set with so few playable Modern cards in it; Magic players are notoriously awful at evaluating new cards. But even after Hogaak, Arisen Necropolis being banned, Urza, Lord High Artificer crafting an entirely new archetype, and Wrenn and Six completely wrecking Legacy, there's one card whose effect we are going to be feeling for a very long time. Force of Negation is one of the most important cards in Modern, full stop. With Faithless Looting finally banned and graveyard decks no longer putting things into play for free over and over again, decks in Modern for the most part are actually playing Magic again. There's a wide variety of broken things one can do in Modern and most them involve casting non-creature spells. For the ones that want to cast creature spells, traditional removal will usually be fine in those spots regardless. Force of Negation puts a hard stop to most of the shenanigans that unfair decks can do, while also doing so as early as turn one and while allowing you to develop your board. It's not like we haven't seen this before as Force of Will is the most important card in Legacy, but Force of Negation was little hard to use at first because of all the graveyard decks. It also wasn't entirely clear exactly which decks wanted Force of Negation , but it's starting to look like "any deck with Blue cards in it." The most obvious place for Force of Negation is control decks, which have been coming in many varieties. Azorius Control | Modern | WhiTe TsaR, 8-1 Magic Online PTQ Creatures (6) 2 Vendilion Clique 4 Snapcaster Mage Planeswalkers (8) 1 Teferi, Hero of Dominaria 2 Jace, the Mind Sculptor 2 Teferi, Time Raveler 3 Narset, Parter of Veils Instants (17) 1 Fact or Fiction 2 Cryptic Command 2 Force of Negation 2 Mana Leak 2 Spell Snare 4 Opt 4 Path to Exile Sorceries (3) 1 Winds of Abandon 2 Supreme Verdict Enchantments (1) 1 Detention Sphere Lands (25) 2 Plains 6 Island 1 Geier Reach Sanitarium 1 Polluted Delta 2 Glacial Fortress 2 Hallowed Fountain 3 Celestial Colonnade 4 Field of Ruin 4 Flooded Strand Sideboard (15) 2 Ashiok, Dream Render 2 Celestial Purge 2 Ceremonious Rejection 1 Disenchant 2 Monastery Mentor 2 Stony Silence 2 Surgical Extraction 2 Timely Reinforcements Buy This Deck Export text format In traditional control decks, Force of Negation keeps you safe on those crucial early turns, where staying alive is more important than card advantage. You're happy to go down a card if it ensures that turn three Karn Liberated or Neoform doesn't resolve because you know you'll get it back later. Force of Negation can also allow you to tap out safely for a planeswalker like Jace, the Mind Sculptor , knowing you can defend yourself so you can untap. Lastly a control deck is also fine just hard casting Force of Negation in the mid to late game, when mana efficiency is no longer important and Cancel frankly isn't that bad. Mono-Blue Tron | Modern | MagicDevil666, 9-0 Magic Online PTQ Creatures (5) 1 Emrakul, the Promised End 1 Nimble Obstructionist 1 Treasure Mage 1 Walking Ballista 1 Wurmcoil Engine Planeswalkers (6) 2 Ugin, the Spirit Dragon 4 Karn, the Great Creator Instants (17) 1 Cyclonic Rift 2 Force of Negation 3 Remand 3 Repeal 4 Condescend 4 Thirst for Knowledge Artifacts (8) 1 Chalice of the Void 1 Mindslaver 2 Talisman of Dominance 4 Expedition Map Lands (24) 6 Island 1 Academy Ruins 1 Field of Ruin 1 Gemstone Caverns 1 Tectonic Edge 2 Tolaria West 4 Urza's Mine 4 Urza's Power Plant 4 Urza's Tower Sideboard (15) 1 Chalice of the Void 1 Crucible of Worlds 1 Dismember 1 Ensnaring Bridge 1 Mycosynth Lattice 1 Oblivion Stone 1 Phyrexian Metamorph 1 Sorcerous Spyglass 2 Spatial Contortion 1 Spellskite 1 Tormod's Crypt 1 Walking Ballista 1 Witchbane Orb 1 Wurmcoil Engine Buy This Deck Export text format Look, if Force of Negation can make career Tier 4 deck Mono-Blue Tron able to go 9-0 in the tough competition of a Magic Online PTQ, that's quite the showing. Force of Negation can help decks that are powerful but a turn too slow help turn the corner and get that extra turn back so they can do their thing. I don't know if this deck is good or not, but with the format swinging more fair I'm very interested to try it. Again we also see the allure of being able to tap out for something nice with Force of Negation backup. Which leads us to the real beneficiary of Force of Negation : tempo and midrange decks. Azorious Stoneblade | Modern | Alvas, 9-0 Magic Online PTQ Creatures (9) 4 Snapcaster Mage 4 Stoneforge Mystic 1 Vendilion Clique Planeswalkers (3) 1 Teferi, Time Raveler 2 Jace, the Mind Sculptor Spells (24) 2 Mana Leak 4 Cryptic Command 4 Force of Negation 4 Opt 4 Path to Exile 4 Spell Snare 1 Batterskull 1 Sword of Feast and Famine Lands (24) 1 Plains 4 Island 3 Hallowed Fountain 4 Celestial Colonnade 4 Field of Ruin 4 Flooded Strand 4 Seachrome Coast Sideboard (15) 2 Celestial Purge 4 Ceremonious Rejection 2 Disdainful Stroke 1 Disenchant 2 Supreme Verdict 4 Timely Reinforcements Buy This Deck Export text format While the list is a bit unorthodox (FOUR Spell Snare !) Stoneforge Mystic is a clear compliment to Force of Negation . In a deck full of counterspells in a format as hostile as Modern it can be difficult to tap out on turn two, especially on the draw, but Force of Negation lets you feel very safe about doing so. In a deck full of threats Force of Negation operates even better, especially with hard to remove ones like planeswalkers. Bant Stoneblade | Modern | cheesfactory, Magic Online PTQ 7-2 Creatures (16) 1 Eternal Witness 1 Geist of Saint Traft 1 Restoration Angel 3 Snapcaster Mage 3 Spell Queller 3 Stoneforge Mystic 4 Noble Hierarch Planeswalkers (4) 2 Jace, the Mind Sculptor 2 Teferi, Time Raveler Instants (16) 1 Familiar's Ruse 1 Spell Pierce 2 Spell Snare 4 Force of Negation 4 Opt 4 Path to Exile Sorceries (1) 1 Winds of Abandon Artifacts (2) 1 Batterskull 1 Sword of Feast and Famine Lands (21) 1 Forest 1 Plains 3 Island 1 Gavony Township 1 Horizon Canopy 2 Breeding Pool 2 Hallowed Fountain 2 Waterlogged Grove 4 Flooded Strand 4 Misty Rainforest Sideboard (15) 2 Ceremonious Rejection 1 Collector Ouphe 2 Damping Sphere 2 Dovin's Veto 1 Eladamri's Call 1 Geist of Saint Traft 1 Knight of Autumn 1 Remorseful Cleric 1 Scavenging Ooze 3 Veil of Summer Buy This Deck Export text format More threats, same idea. Force of Negation is going to need to make us reevaluate how we think of threats in Modern, as cards like Geist of Saint Traft that are very powerful but often too risky to cast on turn three get a whole lot better in conjunction with free countermagic. A deck like this looks more like a Legacy deck than a Modern deck, which is something we're going to need to get used to. They Said Snow! | Modern | Jim Davis Creatures (18) 4 Abominable Treefolk 4 Ice-Fang Coatl 4 Noble Hierarch 2 Boreal Druid 4 Ohran Viper Planeswalkers (3) 3 Teferi, Time Raveler Spells (17) 3 Force of Negation 2 Dead of Winter 3 On Thin Ice 3 Spreading Seas 2 Marit Lage's Slumber 4 Arcum's Astrolabe Lands (22) 1 Hallowed Fountain 1 Temple Garden 1 Windswept Heath 4 Misty Rainforest 4 Prismatic Vista 1 Snow-Covered Plains 1 Snow-Covered Swamp 3 Snow-Covered Forest 3 Snow-Covered Island 3 Scrying Sheets Sideboard (15) 2 Damping Sphere 1 Dead of Winter 2 Stony Silence 3 Rest in Peace 1 Negate 3 Knight of Autumn 3 Geist of Saint Traft Buy This Deck Export text format It really is impressive what kind of fair decks Force of Negation can prop up, as you can build a deck that is good in fair matchups but also have decent unfair matchups almost directly because of it. This is often the crux of deck-building in Modern; you can build a deck with good fair matchups or good unfair matchups, but it's hard to do both. Force of Negation lets you focus more on your fair matchups. Jeskai Saheeli | Modern | Jim Davis Creatures (6) 2 Snapcaster Mage 4 Felidar Guardian Planeswalkers (10) 2 Narset, Parter of Veils 4 Saheeli Rai 4 Teferi, Time Raveler Instants (15) 1 Lightning Helix 2 Spell Pierce 4 Force of Negation 4 Lightning Bolt 4 Path to Exile Sorceries (4) 4 Serum Visions Artifacts (4) 4 Arcum's Astrolabe Lands (21) 1 Snow-Covered Mountain 1 Snow-Covered Plains 2 Snow-Covered Island 1 Glacial Fortress 1 Hallowed Fountain 1 Sacred Foundry 1 Steam Vents 1 Sulfur Falls 4 Arid Mesa 4 Flooded Strand 4 Scalding Tarn Sideboard (15) 1 Supreme Verdict 3 Rest in Peace 2 Stony Silence 2 Geist of Saint Traft 2 Timely Reinforcements 1 Dispel 1 Engineered Explosives 1 Celestial Purge 1 Narset, Parter of Veils 1 Wear // Tear Buy This Deck Export text format The biggest difference between Force of Negation and Force of Will is that you can't use it to defend your own combos, a great design because it almost forces it to be a fair card. However, that doesn't mean Force of Negation isn't good in combo decks. In a deck like Jeskai Saheeli, using Force of Negation to defend yourself after you resolve your early planewalkers can bridge you easily into untapping safely and setting up your combo. Force of Negation also plays very well with Teferi, Time Raveler , as if you can defend it properly that one turn and get to untap, now your opponent can't interact with you. Blue Living End | Modern | Losilla, Magic Online League 5-0 Creatures (25) 1 Simian Spirit Guide 4 Curator of Mysteries 4 Desert Cerodon 4 Glassdust Hulk 4 Street Wraith 4 Striped Riverwinder 4 Windcaller Aven Instants (8) 4 Force of Negation 4 Violent Outburst Sorceries (3) 3 Living End Enchantments (4) 4 Ardent Plea Lands (20) 1 Island 2 Spirebluff Canal 2 Temple Garden 3 Steam Vents 4 Arid Mesa 4 Flooded Strand 4 Misty Rainforest Sideboard (15) 2 Dead // Gone 2 Dismember 2 Fulminator Mage 2 Ingot Chewer 4 Leyline of Sanctity 1 Mystical Teachings 2 Ricochet Trap Buy This Deck Export text format Wait I thought you said you couldn't defend your combo with Force of Negation ? Well, if you can find a way to combo on your opponent's turn you can! Using Violent Outburst to Living End on your opponent's turn is a great way to do this, and Force of Negation brings an element of interaction to Living End that it's never had before. You get a great interactive card you can cast as early as turn one, without breaking the deck-building restriction of playing cards that cost less than three. You even have tons of bad Blue cards to pitch! This deck really impressed me on stream this week. Dredgevine | Modern | darthnius, Magic Online League 5-0 Creatures (29) 2 Bloodghast 3 Carrion Feeder 4 Gravecrawler 4 Hedron Crab 4 Narcomoeba 4 Prized Amalgam 4 Stitcher's Supplier 4 Vengevine Sorceries (11) 3 Memory Sluice 4 Creeping Chill 4 Glimpse the Unthinkable Lands (20) 2 Swamp 3 Marsh Flats 3 Overgrown Tomb 4 Bloodstained Mire 4 Polluted Delta 4 Watery Grave Sideboard (15) 2 Assassin's Trophy 1 Damping Sphere 4 Fatal Push 4 Force of Negation 1 Gnaw to the Bone 1 Leyline of the Void 2 Thoughtseize Buy This Deck Export text format Even if you're not defending a combo exactly, having a free piece of interaction available to your aggressive synergy deck is an amazing option. You aren't going to want such interaction in the maindeck of a deck like Dredgevine, but with all the random Blue cards it becomes a phenomenal sideboard option. Anytime you can interact and still execute your own plan you are going to be very happy in Modern, and it can even tag hate cards like Rest In Peace ! We've Been Here Before Soon enough we will realize that Force of Negation is going to be much closer to Force of Will than we thought. It has many similar features and play patterns, while doing a lot to help prop up fair decks of all types. Put simply, Force of Negation must be respected. Yes, it is card disadvantage and you can feel that in fair matchups sometimes, but as long as Modern is, well... Modern, Force of Negation is going to have a serious role. However unlike Force of Will , Force of Negation does have a blind spot. This means that we can build our decks with Force of Negation in mind. Engine cards that are creatures go up in value significantly; if your combo piece can't be counter by Force of Negation that's a great plus. Card advantage engine creatures like Goblin Ringleader and Tireless Tracker also start looking quite nice too. Whether you plan to beat em or join em, if you're going to play Modern make sure you understand Force of Negation 's role in the new format!
It's easy to look at a decklist that came in 1st place or made Top 8 of a major event and think that you've done your homework for that week's event. However, doing so will only give you a small picture of what the format was really like. There are often plenty of great decks just end up outside of Top 8 that had either slightly worse or even the exact same record as players that made Top 8. Margins at Magic events are very thin, and not checking these decks out would be a huge leak in your exploration of a metagame. Jacob Hagen was on the wrong side of those margins at SCG Dallas a few weeks ago, but he had something very interesting brewing. Jacob took an established but accepted as underpowered archetype, Black/White Smallpox, and added the format's brand new element in Stoneforge Mystic. Stoneforge Mystic gives the deck an immediate jump in power level, and with both Batterskull and Sword of Fire and Ice playing so well with what the deck was already doing we've got something very nice brewing here. Throw in a few copies of the criminally underplayed Gideon, Ally of Zendikar and we're off to the races! Time Stamps : Match 1 - 00:06:25 Match 2 - 00:32:52 Match 3 - 00:52:42 Match 4 - 01:22:58 Match 5 - 01:47:42 Stoneforge Pox | Modern | Jacob Hagen | SCG Dallas 9th Place Creatures (8) 4 Bloodghast 4 Stoneforge Mystic Planeswalkers (7) 3 Gideon, Ally of Zendikar 4 Liliana of the Veil Instants (4) 4 Fatal Push Sorceries (15) 3 Thoughtseize 4 Inquisition of Kozilek 4 Lingering Souls 4 Smallpox Artifacts (2) 1 Batterskull 1 Sword of Fire and Ice Lands (24) 1 Plains 3 Swamp 1 Fetid Heath 2 Shambling Vent 3 Godless Shrine 3 Silent Clearing 3 Urborg, Tomb of Yawgmoth 4 Flagstones of Trokair 4 Marsh Flats Sideboard (15) 2 Plague Engineer 1 Ashiok, Dream Render 1 The Elderspell 1 Kaya, Orzhov Usurper 2 Damping Sphere 2 Collective Brutality 2 Stony Silence 3 Fulminator Mage 1 Damnation Buy This Deck Export text format Not too bad! Despite facing a number of matchups that seemed like they'd be quite difficult on paper, we were able to run the tables. Stoneforge Mystic was basically everything the deck could ever want - A great early threat, a card that could end the game quickly while our opponents were off balance, and card advantage. The fear with any disruptive deck is that they'll be able to recover before you can finish them off, and Stoneforge Mystic and Gideon, Ally of Zendikar did a great job of speeding up the clock. Speaking of Gideon, if you're looking for a good fair threat that kills fast Gideon is an excellent option in Modern. Both Stoneforge Mystic and Gideon pair extremely well with discard spells, as you strip away your opponent's answers and slow them down, then take them out before they can draw what they need. When it comes to low resource games, Gideon and Stoneforge are very resource rich. If you're looking to play fair in Modern or just love Smallpox decks, give Stoneforge Pox a spin!
Well, whether we agree with it or not , Faithless Looting is no longer part of the Modern format. So what does that mean for graveyard decks? Do we throw them all in the garbage? What if you already have your Dredge deck? Or your Izzet Phoenix deck? It doesn't look like they're going to print Careful Study anytime soon, so where do we turn... are there viable replacements for Faithless Looting in Modern? Well, there's good news and bad news. The bad news is that there really aren't great one for one replacements for Faithless Looting . The card was by far the most efficient version of the effect available in the format - there was a reason it was one of the best cards in the format and why it was banned. However, don't fret... There's good news too! The good news is that with Faithless Looting gone, the graveyard has just become a much safer zone to play from. Without decks like Hogaak, Dredge, and Izzet Phoenix making graveyard removal not only mandatory in sideboards but also a sometimes necessary edge in maindecks, the graveyard becomes less of an "all in" proposition. This means we don't need to be doing something as powerful as Hogaak with our graveyard to overcome the trouble of playing around the hate. This is because, frankly, there isn't really any hate right now. A quick look at the results from SCG Tour Dallas last weekend reveals very few graveyard decks, and most importantly a definitive lack of graveyard hate across most of the top decks from the event. So while Faithless Looting may be gone, there's far less pressure on your graveyard deck to be amazing because you'll be able to do your thing unimpeded much more often. What would you rather play; fully powered Dredge in a world where everyone has four Leyline of the Void ? Or a slightly weaker but still fundamentally powerful Dredge deck in a world where almost nobody has intense graveyard hate? It's not about how powerful these decks are in a vacuum, it's about how powerful they are in the current format . So let's take a look at three of the best Faithless Looting decks from the last year or so and see what we can do. Dredge Perhaps one of the most consistently powerful graveyard decks of the last few years, Dredge was a deck that used every part of the Faithless Looting buffalo. Obviously using it to put cards into the graveyard was nice, but using the two draws to enable fast dredging once you already had a dredge card in the graveyard sped you up considerably, and flashback was also super relevant as it allowed you to keep dredging without ever even drawing Faithless Looting . That's a lot of power and utility to replace. However, Faithless Looting isn't even the most powerful enabler in Dredge. While Faithless Looting was a great piece to the puzzle that worked from all angles for a cheap cost, Cathartic Reunion is the true powerhouse card in Dredge that does literally everything. One Cathartic Reunion and a dredge card or two will usually flip almost a quarter of your deck in one shot, even starting from a completely empty graveyard. It's this amount of speed that gave Dredge it's most broken openings and we've still got it. The question, of course, is what do we use to bridge the gap when we don't draw Cathartic Reunion ? Dredge | Modern | Jake Peralez, 1st Place SCG Dallas Modern Classic Creatures (18) 2 Golgari Thug 4 Bloodghast 4 Narcomoeba 4 Prized Amalgam 4 Stinkweed Imp Sorceries (18) 2 Conflagrate 4 Cathartic Reunion 4 Creeping Chill 4 Life from the Loam 4 Tome Scour Artifacts (4) 4 Shriekhorn Lands (20) 1 Mountain 1 Arid Mesa 1 Blood Crypt 1 Gemstone Mine 1 Steam Vents 2 Bloodstained Mire 2 Copperline Gorge 2 Forgotten Cave 2 Stomping Ground 3 City of Brass 4 Wooded Foothills Sideboard (15) 2 Shenanigans 1 Blast Zone 2 Alpine Moon 1 Abrupt Decay 3 Nature's Claim 2 Ancient Grudge 3 Lightning Axe 1 Darkblast Buy This Deck Export text format While the main event was devoid of graveyard decks, Jake Peralez would simply swap his Faithless Looting s out for Tome Scour s, change a few lands, and go on to win the Sunday Modern Classic with his slightly modified Dredge deck. Given how little has changed here and how much optimizing there still is to do, it's not hard to see that Dredge is a deck that still has legs. The problem is that 12 Blue sources is not nearly enough to cast Tome Scour on turn one making it very unreliable. I would venture that Jake won in spite of Tome Scour /his mana base, not because of it. So alongside Tome Scour , let's look at our options: There are others, but Blue offers a number of significant mill options that can be turned toward our own library for fun and profit. If you were looking to dredge Stinkweed Imp twice off of Faithless Looting anyway, Glimpse the Unthinkable does the exact same thing, while Hedron Crab and Drowned Rusalka provide cheap engines for milling that scale far better into the game than something like Shriekhorn . These cards have a pedigree too: Dimir Dredge | Extended | Yuuya Watanabe, Top 8 Pro Tour Austin 2009 Creatures (26) 1 Flame-Kin Zealot 1 Iona, Shield of Emeria 1 Sphinx of Lost Truths 3 Bloodghast 4 Drowned Rusalka 4 Golgari Grave-Troll 4 Hedron Crab 4 Narcomoeba 4 Stinkweed Imp Sorceries (11) 1 Life from the Loam 3 Dread Return 3 Ideas Unbound 4 Glimpse the Unthinkable Enchantments (4) 4 Bridge from Below Lands (19) 2 Island 1 Steam Vents 2 Breeding Pool 3 Verdant Catacombs 3 Watery Grave 4 Misty Rainforest 4 Scalding Tarn Sideboard (15) 1 Life from the Loam 4 Leyline of the Void 3 Thoughtseize 3 Echoing Truth 2 Darkblast 2 Ancient Grudge Buy This Deck Export text format Sure it was a different format and Bridge From Below , Golgari Grave-Troll , and Dread Return were all legal, but the concept is there. Without Bridge From Below , Drowned Rusalka doesn't look as impressive, but the ability to keep dredging over and over via Bloodghast and Prized Amalgam is pretty good. A first attempt: Dredge Test | Modern | Jim Davis Creatures (23) 1 Golgari Thug 2 Drowned Rusalka 4 Bloodghast 4 Hedron Crab 4 Narcomoeba 4 Prized Amalgam 4 Stinkweed Imp Sorceries (17) 2 Conflagrate 3 Life from the Loam 4 Cathartic Reunion 4 Creeping Chill 4 Tome Scour Lands (20) 1 Snow-Covered Island 1 Breeding Pool 1 Polluted Delta 1 Watery Grave 2 Steam Vents 2 Stomping Ground 4 Misty Rainforest 4 Scalding Tarn 4 Wooded Foothills Sideboard (15) 1 Shenanigans 2 Alpine Moon 4 Nature's Claim 3 Lightning Axe 2 Ancient Grudge 3 Spell Pierce Buy This Deck Export text format We've maintained the Red for Cathartic Reunion and the Green for Life from the Loam , avoiding Glimpse the Unthinkable for now, but it's very possible you just want to be . Dredge is still very powerful and can certainly survive this banning, but retooling the deck will be necessary. Izzet Phoenix Ah yes, Izzet Phoenix, the scourge of Modern since my friend and former teammate unleashed Arclight Phoenix on an unsuspecting Modern format. This is probably where the Faithless Looting ban hits hardest, as Faithless Looting was definitely the singular best enabler for Arclight Phoenix available. The deck already wants a huge density of one-mana cantrips, so having a cantrip that binned Arclight Phoenix quickly and easily was a large part of what allowed multiple Arclight Phoenix attacking on turn two or three. There are possible replacements, but they aren't super exciting: ...that's basically it. Seasoned Pyromancer doesn't jive very well, but Chart a Course and Izzet Charm are both serviceable. Chart a Course is a much better card to loot with as you maintain card parity, while Izzet Charm 's flexibility makes it tolerable. The reality is that what made Izzet Phoenix such a good deck was not the times it had two Arclight Phoenix attacking on turn two, but the fact that it was a really good fair deck that could occasionally do broken things as well. Thing in the Ice and Aria of Flame are both still awesome Magic cards, providing very unique and powerful effects for the low cost of playing a lot of cantrips in your deck- something you're more than happy to do anyway. With both cards operating at almost full capacity despite the Faithless Looting ban, we've still got a lot of a deck here. Furthermore while Arclight Phoenix won't be as consistent as it was, it will also be seeing way less graveyard hate as well. Let's give it a shot: Izzet Phoenix Test | Modern | Jim Davis Creatures (8) 4 Arclight Phoenix 4 Thing in the Ice Instants (20) 1 Magmatic Sinkhole 2 Izzet Charm 2 Lightning Axe 3 Opt 4 Lightning Bolt 4 Manamorphose 4 Thought Scour Sorceries (11) 2 Finale of Promise 2 Sleight of Hand 3 Chart a Course 4 Serum Visions Enchantments (3) 3 Aria of Flame Lands (18) 1 Snow-Covered Mountain 3 Snow-Covered Island 1 Flooded Strand 2 Fiery Islet 3 Steam Vents 4 Scalding Tarn 4 Spirebluff Canal Sideboard (15) 2 Surgical Extraction 2 Alpine Moon 1 Abrade 1 Engineered Explosives 1 Spell Pierce 2 Force of Negation 2 Narset, Parter of Veils 1 Saheeli, Sublime Artificer 2 Dragon's Claw 1 Shenanigans Buy This Deck Export text format It's hard to feel out exactly how many Chart a Course / Izzet Charm you want, especially with Lightning Axe also helping out to get Arclight Phoenix into the graveyard for value, but there's still some serious things happening here that need to be respected. Mardu Pyromancer Of course, Faithless Looting had its effect on the fair decks too! Faithless Looting was the backbone of Mardu Pyromancer, giving the non-Blue deck the ability to manipulate its draw steps while also gaining value of graveyard effects. Losing that hurts, but Modern Horizons brought some goodies for Mardu Pyromancer as well to help fill the void: Seasoned Pyromancer steps right in as a great graveyard value card that falls perfectly in line with Mardu Pyromancer's gameplan. You have plenty of spells you want in the graveyard anyway, so Seasoned Pyromancer does a great job of filling the Faithless Looting role of doing that, finding the right cards, and making sure you don't flood. However, the card I'm secretly very excited about is Ransack the Lab . Yes this is just a colorshifted Strategic Planning , a card that does not see play in Modern, but that's because Blue has an embarrassment of riches in the cantrip department; Red and Black do not. Ransack the Lab can help us find the cards we want, provide fuel for Bedlam Reveler , and dump cards like Lingering Souls and Smiting Helix in the graveyard as well. Yes two mana is more than one, but Mardu Pyromancer isn't exactly a deck known for being fast, and our large amount of 1 mana interaction helps to make sure we don't fall behind. Finding the right mix of graveyard cards is tough, but here's the first draft: Mardu Pyromancer Test | Modern | Jim Davis Creatures (10) 2 Bedlam Reveler 4 Seasoned Pyromancer 4 Young Pyromancer Instants (8) 2 Fatal Push 2 Kolaghan's Command 4 Lightning Bolt Sorceries (20) 1 Collective Brutality 1 Unearth 2 Dreadbore 2 Smiting Helix 3 Ransack the Lab 3 Thoughtseize 4 Inquisition of Kozilek 4 Lingering Souls Lands (22) 1 Snow-Covered Plains 2 Snow-Covered Mountain 2 Snow-Covered Swamp 1 Godless Shrine 1 Sacred Foundry 2 Arid Mesa 2 Blood Crypt 3 Marsh Flats 4 Blackcleave Cliffs 4 Bloodstained Mire Sideboard (15) 2 Collective Brutality 2 Stony Silence 1 Wear // Tear 3 Pillage 1 Nahiri, the Harbinger 1 Kambal, Consul of Allocation 2 Nihil Spellbomb 1 Engineered Explosives 2 Plague Engineer Buy This Deck Export text format It's possible you want the third Bedlam Reveler and some numbers certainly need to be tweaked, but we've got a very nice start here that seems great against creature decks and Stoneforge Mystic decks alike. Hell, maybe you want Stoneforge Mystic too. It's also possible you want to let go of Bedlam Reveler and go for the Nahiri, the Harbinger + Emrakul, the Aeons Torn plan as well. There are a lot of options! Don't Fret! Yes, Faithless Looting is gone. However, in a weird way this opens up the format to a lot of possible graveyard shenanigans. Don't be afraid to experiment, as this is a very different format than it was a few weeks ago. We are going to need to realign our perceptions of the format, so don't be afraid to slay some sacred cows and push those unexpected buttons. Good luck!
Near the end of a Standard format it can be tough to innovate and come up with new decks. Most cards have been explored, and frankly with a new set just around the corner acquiring new cards to try things out can be a chore, so why not look to put a sweet twist onto an existing archetype? Perhaps I can interest you in a one sided Armageddon? Ashiok, Dream Render is already a reasonable card in Standard, as the anti-shuffle clause has good utility against Scapeshift decks and the graveyard hate clause works wonders against the Four-Color Kethis Combo deck from last week and a few other places, but we're thinking bigger. I'll just lay it out for you; if you play Fall of the Thran with an Ashiok in play, you can exile all of the lands in your opponent's graveyard, making Fall of the Thran a one-sided Armageddon ... nice Field of the Dead ! Time Stamps: Match 1 - 00:07:09 Match 2 - 00:29:18 Match 3 - 00:46:44 Match 4 - 01:05:33 Match 5 - 01:14:51 Ashiok-Geddon | Core Set 2020 Standard | Jim Davis Planeswalkers (15) 1 Jace, Wielder of Mysteries 2 Ashiok, Dream Render 4 Narset, Parter of Veils 4 Teferi, Hero of Dominaria 4 Teferi, Time Raveler Instants (4) 2 Cast Down 2 Disfigure Sorceries (10) 1 The Elderspell 2 Legion's End 3 Kaya's Wrath 4 Thought Erasure Enchantments (5) 2 Fall of the Thran 3 Oath of Kaya Lands (26) 1 Plains 1 Swamp 4 Drowned Catacomb 4 Glacial Fortress 4 Godless Shrine 4 Hallowed Fountain 4 Isolated Chapel 4 Watery Grave Sideboard (15) 1 Disfigure 3 Duress 2 Noxious Grasp 1 The Elderspell 1 Dovin's Veto 1 Ashiok, Dream Render 2 Thief of Sanity 2 Basilica Bell-Haunt 1 Kaya's Wrath 1 Enter the God-Eternals Buy This Deck Export text format Export Arena format Hah, well that's embarrassing. Damn you Field of the Dead decks! Grafting the Ashiok+ Fall of the Thran package onto Esper Control helps to give it an answer to Field of the Dead and other decks that try to go over the top with it, while also removing any need for creatures to win the game, thus blanking your opponent's removal. While Ashiok and Fall of the Thran don't perform well against more aggressive decks you're already very well situated there, and as we saw they are going to have dead creature removal as well. If you're a control player looking for a different take on Esper Control, or just an evil person who loves destroying their opponent's lands, give Ashiok-Geddon a spin! Follow Jim Davis on Twitter and Twitch! https://twitter.com/JimDavisMTG https://www.twitch.tv/jimdavismtg
Finally, it's the day we've all been waiting for! Since Modern Horizons we have lived in the shadow of Hogaak, Arisen Necropolis , which managed to sneakily dodge a ban cycle by fooling everyone into thinking Bridge From Below was the real problem and not the new card with the old mechanic that already has multiple cards on the Modern ban list. Thankfully, we no longer have to live with that mistake! Sorry Hogaak, don't let the door hit you on the way out! Okay great, we can finally start thinking about Hogaak-less Modern. My 6-4 record at the Mythic Championship with Goblins was certainly tainted by a 1-3 record against Hogaak, maybe we can start there? How does Saheeli combo sound? Can we start playing fair decks again? So many questions! So let's get started on figuring... I'm sorry, what? ... Oh no you didn't. Well the truth is, they did. Wizards of the Coast has finally pulled the trigger and banned Faithless Looting in Modern. Yes, Faithless Looting has been one of the most played cards in the format in the last few years. Some have called it Modern's Brainstorm , likening it to one of the key features of the Legacy format - which is that basically every deck plays Brainstorm . It's at the point in Legacy now where everyone just accepts that Brainstorm is the most played card and nobody wants to do anything about it because it's a " Brainstorm " format. The problem is, Faithless Looting isn't like Brainstorm . Faithless Looting , like the other hot button Modern enabler Ancient Stirrings , isn't very good by itself. You can't just add Faithless Looting to any Modern deck that can cast it and automatically make it better and more consistent. Putting Faithless Looting (or Ancient Stirrings ) into your deck means your deck cares about something . Maybe you want to discard Lingering Souls for value, or try to set up Goryo's Vengeance into Griselbrand , or start dredging Life from the Loam , or put Hollow One into play quickly... whatever it is that you're doing with Faithless Looting you've got a pretty clearly defined deck-building purpose. All Brainstorm asks is that you play fetchlands, basically a required mana base in most Legacy decks anyway. Cards like Brainstorm , or to use more Modern-analogous cards, Ponder or Preordain , tend to stifle deck-building and have a homogenizing effect on the format. When every fair deck has to start with four copies of Ponder and four copies of Preordain , there's less room for other cards that actually do things. You find the proper removal spells and Tarmogoyf s you need in a very even and consistent distribution, and go about doing roughly the same thing every game while playing cards that are individually the best at their respective points on the curve. You have very little incentive to play any cards that require work to be good because all your work is done for you. Cards like Faithless Looting and Ancient Stirrings require work. Just look at some of the cards that are not only playable, but have been downright format staples in the last few years because of Faithless Looting and Ancient Stirrings : That's awesome! Yes, sometimes things go a bit too far. It can be frustrating to be on the receiving end of two Arclight Phoenix attacking you on turn two, or a Stinkweed Imp dredge that hits three Creeping Chill the turn before you're going to kill your opponent, or another turn three Karn Liberated . However, before any of these decks got taken to the limit and received one too many good pieces that put them way over the top, they were really sweet brews that any Magic player would look at and go "wow that's a really cool piece of deck-building." Don't take away the powerful and interesting deck-building tool, take away the cards that actually cause the problems. While Faithless Looting may have gotten those Arclight Phoenix in the graveyard, it was Manamorphose 's ease of allowing you to cast three spells on turn two that brought them back ahead of schedule. Sure maybe you could race Dredge, but not when they start the game with an 18 point life swing in their favor. I'm sorry, why can Vintage decks only play one Mox Sapphire but Modern decks can play four? All of these things are just happening a turn too fast! Furthermore if you were to ban a card like Manamorphose or Creeping Chill , you directly target the card that is causing the problem by supercharging a deck faster than it should be, and more importantly only damaging that deck. The only decks that play Manamorphose are Arclight Phoenix decks and old Storm decks, and neither deck is using the card reasonably. Creeping Chill is only played in Dredge. Surgically remove the problem, don't just drop the hammer on a whole swath of decks that were never even involved in the dirty things that Faithless Looting was doing. And yes, I understand the argument that leaving Faithless Looting in the format leaves the door open for more problems as more graveyard cards are printed. There are two solutions to that: 1. Don't print cards like Creeping Chill , which do almost nothing in any format except make Dredge obnoxious. 2. If something does slip through the cracks (which will inevitably happen, cough cough Hogaak), then deal with it on a case by case basis. Banning cards happens in Modern, and while it's not pretty it's also rarely entirely unexpected or surprising. Free cards that do things ahead of schedule are more damaging to the Modern format than good, synergy-based 1 mana enablers. Wait we're not done yet? Really? Now? Stoneforge Mystic finally being freed isn't necessarily a bad thing. While there are certainly concerns with homogenization when it comes to what threats fair decks are going to play, Stoneforge Mystic doesn't seem out of line in a fairly wild Modern format. Both Jace, the Mind Sculptor and Bloodbraid Elf , once sheer terrors of the format, came off the ban list with relative ease despite significant fear from the community, helping to prove how hard playing fair in Modern can really be. Stoneforge Mystic helps to tip the scale of Modern back toward fair decks, giving them yet another excellent tool in their war against Modern's many varied linear strategies. Modern Horizons , Hogaak notwithstanding, seemed to have this "make fair decks better" end goal in mind and Stoneforge Mystic certainly follows that goal. Coupled with new tools like Force of Negation , Stoneforge Mystic could have a real and positive effect on the format. I'm all for letting her lose and seeing where things end up; in the absolute worst-case scenario if she has to be rebanned so be it, but that's fairly unlikely. The big question is, why now? When you run any sort of experiment, the more variables you introduce at once the harder it is to get accurate results. You can't gauge the impact of any one variable because it gets blended in with the impact from the other variables, making it hard to draw solid conclusions. Banning Hogaak was already a big deal, but removing Faithless Looting from Modern is one of the biggest upheavals the format has ever seen, not to mention that Modern Horizons , the single most impactful set to the Modern format ever released, really hasn't gotten its fair shake yet because of the shadow of Hogaak. That's a lot of variables already brewing! It seems more prudent to let the dust settle, see where things end up, and then consider reintroducing a huge element like Stoneforge Mystic at a period where things feel relatively stable. Is that less exciting? Well, yes, but I'm pretty sure we've had enough excitement for one day. What I Would Have Done This is what I would have liked to have seen yesterday: Announcement Date: August 26, 2019 Modern: Hogaak, Arisen Necropolis banned. Manamorphose is banned. Creeping Chill is banned. Mox Opal is on the watch list. Stoneforge Mystic is on the unban watch list. There's no doubt that Hogaak, Arisen Necropolis should have been banned, but I don't like dropping a huge bomb on the format as well. Cut out the problem cards, keep an eye on other problems, and look for good stable spots to consider adding to the format rather than subtracting from it. I also love the idea of a tangible watch list, both to let us know what Wizards of the Coast is thinking internally about certain problem cards, as well as giving everyone some advance warning that their entire Modern deck runs the risk of being defunct soon. Modern is a long term format. Players buy into Modern because they know they can feel comfortable learning and playing a deck for a long time to come in perhaps Magic's most popular format. It is certainly a format that needs to be kept in check because it can get pretty wild, but it's not a format that takes well to massive, sweeping change. Banning Faithless Looting in Modern was a mistake.
It's unusual when a brand new Standard deck pops up later in a Standard season. It's unlikely when that deck goes on to dominate an event. However, that's exactly what happened recently in the MTG Arena MCQ! The crew of Ondrej Strasky, Ivan Floch, and Stanislav Cifka have been tearing it up in Standard lately with powerful and successful brews, and quite frankly they've done it again. I've done some brewing with Kethis, The Hidden Hand on stream, but had been viewing it as a beefy Eternal Witness variant that wanted you to play with lots of legends. But where I saw Eternal Witness , Ondrej and friends saw Yawgmoth's Will , also known as one of the most powerful combo cards of all time. The result? A surprisingly powerful combo deck! Time Stamps: Match 1 - 00:08:26 Match 2 - 00:39:17 Match 3 - 00:59:44 Match 4 - 01:25:27 Kethis Combo | Ondrej Strasky | MTG Arena MCQ Creatures (16) 4 Diligent Excavator 4 Fblthp, the Lost 4 Kethis, the Hidden Hand 4 Lazav, the Multifarious Planeswalkers (9) 2 Ashiok, Dream Render 3 Tamiyo, Collector of Tales 4 Teferi, Time Raveler Sorceries (2) 2 Urza's Ruinous Blast Enchantments (4) 4 Oath of Kaya Artifacts (4) 4 Mox Amber Lands (25) 1 Drowned Catacomb 1 Godless Shrine 1 Temple of Mystery 2 Temple Garden 3 Glacial Fortress 3 Hallowed Fountain 3 Temple of Malady 3 Temple of Silence 4 Breeding Pool 4 Watery Grave Sideboard (15) 2 Teshar, Ancestor's Apostle 1 Tamiyo, Collector of Tales 2 Unmoored Ego 1 Jace, Wielder of Mysteries 1 Urza's Ruinous Blast 2 Cerulean Drake 1 The Elderspell 1 Tolsimir, Friend to Wolves 1 Ashiok, Dream Render 2 Legion's End 1 The Immortal Sun Buy This Deck Export text format Export Arena format Mix together some odd draft commons, a one card engine, and some of the best cards in Standard and what do you get? Kethis Combo, that's what. As you saw in the games, the true power of this deck comes from the much maligned Mox Amber . The ability to generate free Diligent Excavator triggers as well as free mana as you loop through every Mox Amber in your graveyard via the legend rule give the deck it's combo potential in conjunction with the activated ability on Kethis, the Hidden Hand . Once you've gotten through most of your deck, it's time to point your Diligent Excavator triggers at your opponent and finish them off. As you also saw in the games, this deck is tough to play! This is not a combo deck like Scapeshift or Show and Tell where you play your card and do your thing and win. There's a large amount of setup and finesse, and then once you're actually there there's a bunch of busy work and going off to execute as well. In a lot of ways the deck resembles the old Four Color Rally the Ancestors decks or even Modern Ironworks decks. However, if you can get over the learning curve we're looking at and extremely powerful deck in Standard right now. When your combo deck gets to play the best card in the format, Teferi, Time Raveler , you know you're in a good place. Just beware the rope!
One of the great things about Magic is how infinitely customizable it is. With so many different and varied game pieces and such a long history, it's almost as if there are many different games residing inside the overall scope of Magic as a whole. Playing Vintage Dredge against Vintage Shops is going to look like a completely different game than playing Core Set 2020 Draft, much like playing a six player Commander game is going to look vastly different than a Standard Esper Control mirror. It's this amount of fluidity that brings us back over and over again, and is why Magic has been going for a quarter of a century with no signs of slowing down. There's just such a huge sandbox to play in that it never feels like you reach the sides. Formats themselves constantly change, but if you ever grow tired of one there's always something else to try. Of course, this brings problems as well. The reason we have a few big "main" formats - think Standard, Modern, Commander - is that there needs to be some sort of uniformity in rule sets or else finding an opponent who wants to play the same game as you can be difficult. You may love playing Canadian Highlander with your roommate at home, but if you bring that Canadian Highlander deck to a local store it's pretty unlikely you are going to find anyone who also has a Canadian Highlander deck to battle you with. There are only so many players in each local store/event, meaning it can be hard to get two players who want to play a semi-obscure format in the same place at the same time. This is where digital Magic vastly outpaces tabletop Magic . Sure, on average I prefer to play Magic in tabletop than digital because I like going places and interacting with people, but the ease and logistics of digital Magic allow for so much more with far less planning. Instead of only having the people in your immediate area available at times that are convenient to them, you've got every single Magic player in the whole world who's currently online to draw from. Now all you need to do is set up an interesting format for them to play, and give them some incentive to play it, and you're off to the races. Magic Online - Chaos Draft For the uninitiated, Chaos Draft is a wild and crazy format that also happens to be one of my favorites. Chaos Draft is fairly simple in practice; assemble eight (or six) players as you normally would for a booster draft and proceed as normal. The only difference is that you will not be drafting the most recent set, but rather from a random pool of booster packs from all different sets over Magic 's history. Typically the ideal Chaos draft has no repeating packs, meaning every pack you see will be from a different set. You could end up with three starting packs of Future Sight , Onslaught , and Iconic Masters , or any other awesome mixture. The problem with Chaos draft is that logistically getting together a Chaos Draft in paper is quite difficult. Not only do you need seven other players who want to Chaos draft all in the same place at the same time, but old packs are expensive . A booster pack of Urza's Saga is going to run you a cool $100 here on CoolStuffInc.com, and even more recent sets like Innistrad are going to run you $12. This makes getting an exciting spread of sets both difficult and expensive, which really hampers the fun of a Chaos Draft. It feels awesome getting to open that old Invasion pack and feel like you're touching Magic 's history, rather than just feeling like you're opening last year's Standard packs. Having Chaos Drafts on an online platform completely circumvents this issue, as well as the issue of needing to get people together to actually do the draft. Thankfully Magic Online does just that, bringing the Chaos Draft experience to us at various times as a break from Cube Drafting. This is awesome! These sorts of fun formats are much easier to do on Magic Online and for years I've been calling for more things like this. One of the biggest failings of online Magic early on was that it tried to just exactly mimic paper Magic rather than looking at unique things it could do and it's great to see this both on Magic Online and MTG Arena (which we will get to shortly). My only complaint is the current pool of packs available for Magic Online Chaos Drafts , which has been curated to skip some early sets as well as remove all core sets and Masters sets. Aside from the fact that I think all sets should be available for history's sake, Masters set's high power level and synergies and Core set's great collection of baseline effects make putting together good Chaos draft decks easier and more fun, and who doesn't love opening a good Masters pack? Would love to see this changed. Quick word on Chaos Draft strategy: Chaos Draft is about thinking on your feet and trying to piece together synergy from across many different sets and themes. Because this isn't easy to do you want to focus more on power than all out synergy, while still finding nice little pockets of synergy to exploit. Make sure to try and have a good top end, and try to stay open and two colors while drafting unless there is very good fixing. The format is definitely slower than normal draft so don't be afraid to take the draw if you've got a lot of removal and/or your opponent's deck is slow. Good luck and enjoy! MTG Arena - Standard Shakeup While I've lamented for years about the lack of crazy, short-term formats for Magic Online , MTG Arena has not made the same mistakes. We've seen all sorts of crazy game modes that usually last for a weekend, giving us the chance to explore something new with everyone else for a short period of time. The most recent was the Standard Shakeup, something they've done before and I expect they will do more often as it is great fun. The theme is simple, what would happen if all the top cards in Standard were suddenly banned? As players get tired of playing against Teferi, Time Raveler and the Standard metagame becomes more and more developed, players are always looking for that great week one, wild wild west format and this mode gives it to them. Of course, if this was actually what Standard looked like going forward it would be eventually solved as the new top cards would take their places in the top tier of the new format, but by running it for only a short time we get to have our fun and then move on. That's the best part of these fun, short lived formats - if somebody breaks it, that's awesome! The format gets broken and is then gone in a few days anyway, no harm done. It's hard for me to properly emphasize how important things like this are for the health of digital Magic as a whole. Put simply, alternate game modes like this are very fun! Much of the fun and challenge of Magic is deck-building and exploration, which can feel stifled at times by the heavily competitive formats and the ranked ladder. There's infinite content and strategy available for any given normal Standard format, meaning that players can brute force their way into learning a top deck and do well. Having these sorts of think on your feet formats really get the creative Magic juices flowing. I can only hope we see more of these events, though I wish they would last a little bit longer to ensure everyone gets a chance to play. With MTG Arena 's first big rotation coming up we are going to have MTG Arena cards not in Standard for the first time on our accounts, which opens the door up for even more format possibilities. Things like Chaos draft could be a great way to get older cards into newer players hands, as well as formats that use cards both old and new. I've been advocating for Build Your Own Standard on Magic Online for almost a decade, a format where you get to choose a few different sets to build your Standard deck from and go from there, and hopefully we get there one day on MTG Arena . If you haven't tried any of these more out there game modes on MTG Arena I highly suggest it. They encourage creativity, are a ton of fun, and are frankly a breath of fresh air when things get a little stale (like right now with pre-rotation Standard and pre-Hogaak ban Modern). The only downside when it comes to these events on MTG Arena is that people don't necessarily want to blow all of their wild cards on cards for an event that only last for a few days, which I understand. Maybe Wizards of the Coast can make these events phantom? Or allow you to uncraft any card you crafted for the event itself at the end of it? There's so much that can be done with digital Magic , and I hope Wizards of the Coast keeps being unafraid to push the envelope. Don't Fight The Future Digital Magic is a huge part of the future of Magic . I would never want it to replace tabletop Magic as there's nothing better than being in a room with 500 other players and throwing down with something big on the line, but digital Magic has so many advantages over paper that they must be properly utilized. Digital Magic is a different medium than paper Magic and these sorts of fun formats and events help to explore that medium in new and exciting ways. Let's keep it up Wizards of the Coast!
As we approach the end of a Standard format we're usually looking for two things: A. Is there anything fun and competitive not already doing well? B. If there is, will that deck survive rotation? And for the answer to that question, let me introduce you to my friend Chandra! And her friend Chandra. And her friend Chandra too... Oh boy this is quite the Paradox. Time Stamps: Match 1 - 00:12:43 Match 2 - 00:25:30 Match 3 - 01: 03:19 Match 4 - 01:22:26 Match 5 - 01:41:47 Chandra Tribal | Core Set 2020 Standard | Jim Davis Planeswalkers (20) 1 Karn, Scion of Urza 1 Ugin, the Ineffable 2 Chandra, Awakened Inferno 2 Tibalt, Rakish Instigator 3 Chandra, Fire Artisan 3 Saheeli, Sublime Artificer 4 Chandra, Acolyte of Flame 4 Sarkhan the Masterless Instants (10) 2 Flame Sweep 4 Chandra's Triumph 4 Shock Sorceries (3) 1 Jaya's Immolating Inferno 2 Lava Coil Artifacts (3) 1 Mox Amber 2 Chandra's Regulator Lands (24) 16 Mountain 4 Interplanar Beacon 4 Mobilized District Sideboard (15) 3 Alpine Moon 2 Dire Fleet Daredevil 2 Lava Coil 4 Unchained Berserker 2 Goblin Chainwhirler 2 Legion Warboss Buy This Deck Export text format Export Arena format Who needs other colors when you have more Chandras? There's such a great density of planeswalkers in Red that other colors aren't even needed, and with Red's excellent removal we form the core of a very good superfriends-style deck with a mana base that is smooth as butter and that almost completely avoids rotation. While the deck is called Chandra Tribal, the real star of the show is Sarkhan The Masterless . Most planeswalker decks have the problem of grinding well but not winning very quickly. This means that decks with huge endgames can go over the top of what they are doing. Not so with Sarkhan, who is able to take your opponent from 20 to dead in two short turns. Already a great card, Sarkhan is phenomenal when put in a deck with 20 total planeswalkers. You also get to utilize Chandra's Triumph which is a very underrated removal spell in Standard right now if you have Chandra in your deck, as it's almost a Lightning Strike on the floor but turns into a pseudo- Bedevil if you do have a Chandra. That's an amazing deal for two mana in only one color! The only real disappointment from the deck was Chandra's Regulator , which just doesn't perform very well unless the game goes super late or we already have a Chandra in play. We need most of our cards and if we mulligan or get Thought Erasure d there just isn't enough cardboard to go around to start looting in the midgame. I would replace at least one Regulator with the fourth copy of Chandra, Fire Artisan and consider cutting the other as well. All and all Chandra Tribal is a blast. The deck is fun, competitive, a nice mixup before rotation, and most importantly a deck that is safe to pick up or craft because almost all of it remains playable post-rotation. Furthermore once Nexus of Fate and Scapeshift , two endgames that go way over the top of planeswalkers, rotate and the format powers down as a whole, the deck looks ever better. Let's light it up!
Since the advent of the Magic Pro League (and subsequent hiccups of seeing two of its members banned from Magic ), the introduction of MTG Arena into competitive play, the removal of Grand Prix coverage, and the removal of many of the professional programs that have been in place for almost two decades, the future of Professional Magic has been very much in question. Further compounding the average Magic player's concerns has been the lack of any concrete information or announcements from Wizards of the Coast, leaving everyone to wonder if there would even be tabletop competitive Magic in 2020. Well Wizards of the Coast went and dropped a whole truck full of concrete information this Wednesday and frankly things are looking pretty good! Fears about the future of competitive Magic , especially tabletop Magic , have been proven to be largely unfounded, as there is a robust plan in place running from your local game stores all the way up to the MPL. Some parts look familiar while some are new, but there is no doubt that a lot of time, planning, and money has gone into this new plan for organized play which instills a large amount of excitement and confidence. Today we are going to go over the announcement and I will be offering my thoughts on how each part of it works. The MPL The Magic Pro League, or MPL, was the only piece of this puzzle that we really got from Wizards of the Coast when it came to competitive Magic this year. 32 of the top players from 2018 were awarded big contracts for the year, both to play in exclusive events as well as stream and promote Magic as a whole. However, completely left out was any information about how one gets into the MPL or what the MPL was going to look like year to year. Now we have our answers. The MPL will be shrinking to 24 players and will have a turnover rate of up to eight players a year. The streaming contracts are going away, but there will still be a minimum of $50,000 in appearance fees to be paid out to members of the MPL. This is of course the bare minimum, meaning this income will be supplemented by tournament winnings as well as any money made doing content creation or sponsorships. This is "being a professional Magic player" to its highest degree, to the point that people with good jobs may leave said jobs to play Magic instead. My Thoughts : With the MPL being so exclusive the exact logistics of it won't matter directly to the large majority of Magic players in the world. However, as far as keeping the game's best and brightest in the game and under the spotlight this is excellent. Having an amount of stability and reliable income is extremely important for allowing a professional Magic player to feel comfortable choosing that vocation, but having some amount of relegation is also important so making the MPL can be an attainable goal and there's new blood in the system. Relegation is also extremely exciting from a viewer's standpoint, which feels to be the main purpose of the MPL - we want good TV. The Rivals League Of course relegation has to lead somewhere, and if that somewhere is back on the streets to play PTQs and try to start from the bottom again that's not acceptable. As such, there is the new "Rivals League." Essentially the minor leagues of the MPL, the Rivals league is in a lot of ways similar to what being a platinum/gold pro was before. The Rivals League is the home of MPL players who get relegated, as well as new challengers from both digital and tabletop. This is also where WotC will be putting their discretionary invites, rather than directly into the MPL. Rivals League players will be qualified for most of the large events of the year, as well as privy to up to $20,000 in appearance fees as a baseline floor. The Rivals League is the stepping stone to the MPL and the real target of players looking to make it into the MPL. Just like in baseball, you're unlikely to make it in the majors unless you prove you can hack it in the minors first. There will also be a big end of the season Gauntlet tournament where the top Rivals League players battle against the bottom MPL players for the right to join the MPL. My Thoughts : This is awesome. The purpose of the MPL is to be the ultimate spectator experience for Magic and having a minor league system and the drama of players being relegated and promoted is excellent. At present there are just the MPL players and their huge streaming contracts sitting on piles of money and there's no excitement around it. This is the excitement we need as viewers and I imagine the Gauntlet tournament will be great TV. The Rivals League also feels much more attainable than the MPL itself, which makes it a great end goal for higher level players. The Players Tour Pro Tours/Mythic Championships as we know them are no more. They will be replaced with a regional tournament system called The Players Tour. In a lot of ways these will essentially be mini-Pro Tours that are region-based. You must qualify for them, they award points that help get you into the Rivals League, they have large prize pools, and top finishers qualify for a Players Tour Finals. If Players Tour events are mini-Pro Tours, The Players Tour Finals are basically super-Pro Tours. There are three Players Tour Finals each season, with smaller fields of around 120 players and a much larger prize pool that the normal Players Tour events (relative to the size of the field). The Players Tour events will have more overall players than the present Mythic Championship system has, but the Players Tour Finals will be more exclusive, widening the middle ground between the lowest levels and the top of organized play. My Thoughts : In a lot of ways this is a logical extension of the current Mythic Championship system. Having the main Players Tour events be regional fixes a lot of issues having to do with travel and expenses, both on WotC's side of things as well as the players. If you still really want to travel out of the country you are allowed to attend any Players Tour event outside of region. This also gives them more high level events to cover, presumably to make up for the lack of Grand Prix coverage. Having more overall slots available for "pro" level events is exciting for players at the bottom trying to qualify, so not only is it logistically easier but more able to give budding competitive players a taste of the highest levels of competitive play. At the same time the system is providing higher level players with clear stepping stones all the way up to the MPL, with almost every step feeling worthwhile in the process. Qualifiers Of course the big question left is "how do I qualify for a Players Tour event?" Thankfully the answer is fairly simple and mostly what we are used to. Obviously every MPL and Rivals League player will be invited, as well as Hall of Fame players, but beyond that qualifications will largely remain the same. There will be PTQs, WPN store PTQs, and Magic Online PTQs, Grand Prix will still award invites to players who Top 8 or have at least 13 wins, discretionary invites, last chance qualifiers, and perhaps most exciting is that there will be invites given to private tournament series like the SCGTour. That's a lot of different routes to get you started from essentially nothing. My Thoughts : A lot of this is just the bread of butter of what we are used to as tournament Magic players. The ability to do well at a local PTQ and convert that into a huge win on the Players Tour is just like it was before with PTQs and the Pro Tour and that is exceedingly important for the health of competitive Magic as a whole. "The dream" is a huge selling point for competitive Magic play and it feels alive and well. Everything about the qualification system and the levels of the tournament series has a good flow to it. The only major complaint going around so far is that without some sort of points-based system in PTQs and Grand Prix, consistent but near miss finishes are not rewarded. It's much harder to make Top 16 of three Grand Prix in a row than spike one top 8, but under the system as written those three Top 16s don't matter very much. However, WotC has addressed this concern and said that they have something in the works to reward consistent finishes. MTG Arena On the MTG Arena side of things the system will be largely what we are used to. MTG Arena Mythic Championships will be rebranded into Mythic Invitationals, melding them into how the Mythic Invitational was run at PAX East this year. This means a lot of money, that esports flair, and a large amount of the game's best players mixing in with qualifying MTG Arena players and discretionary invite personalities. The mythic ladder on MTG Arena will again be the path to large qualifying events (like the one happening tomorrow) which will then feed directly into the Mythic Inviationals. This system is simple and effective, with the Mythic Invitationals seemingly more focused on the MPL and "well known" players to help push the MTG Arena brand. My Thoughts : Everyone's fear about the changes coming to tournament Magic seemed centered around the notion that WotC was going to kill paper Magic in favor of MTG Arena tournaments. The reality of this entire plan is quite the opposite. Most of the system for getting into the MPL or playing in high level Magic events will be based on tabletop Magic , as the MTG Arena system is fairly small and simple, with only the three Mythic Invitationals over the course of the year and the various qualifying tournaments. There's certainly a focus on the top players in these events, which makes sense because they are more coverage-centric and in the traditional esports model. It's going to be very hard to qualify for a Mythic Invitational and doing so is going to involve a healthy amount of luck by spiking an event. However that isn't necessarily a bad thing, and with every player in the MPL and Rivals League eligible to play in Mythic Invitationals in a small field for a lot of money it is a huge benefit for achieving placement in either of those leagues and promises an extremely exciting event to watch. Overall Thoughts Whew that was a lot to take in. All and all, this announcement and entire system has me feeling very optimistic for the future of tournament Magic . There is a healthy amount of focus on MTG Arena and the esports side of things with the MPL and Rivals League, but also a very large amount of the more established tabletop tournament Magic we've all known and loved for two decades. While we don't have all the nitty gritty details yet, the entire system seems to have a clear focus and path from the PTQ at your local games store all the way to the MPL, with the ability to enjoy each part of the system along the way that matches your level of play. Listen I get it, change is scary. This is not the exact Pro Tour system we are used to. Yes, trying to get into the MPL feels like a ludicrously impossible goal... But so is playing starting goaltender for the New York Rangers. Having it be so elite and difficult to obtain gives it validity and relevance, while ideally making the Rivals League competition for the chance to obtain those coveted MPL slots the most exciting Magic we've ever watched as fans. And no matter what there are still events for everyone to compete and strive for, as making it to a Players Tour event feels very obtainable and tangible. The fear was that it was MPL or bust, which is clearly not the case. As both a player and a fan of Magic , I'm excited to see how this all turns out. As someone who has been very critical of WotC's organized play choices in the past, consider me cautiously optimistic. This is a great first step, and if WotC can keep the ball rolling while communicating well and listening to feedback from its players we may have something very special brewing here.
While Modern currently operates under the shadow of Hogaak, Arisen Necropolis , there are in fact other exciting cards in Modern Horizons . Hogaak will be banned sooner rather than later, leaving us to begin searching for the best new elements that Modern Horizons adds to the format. I'd be lying if I said I thought a snow theme would have been at the top of my list for "major Modern themes pushed in Modern Horizons " but here we are! There's a lot of power in the snow cards from Modern Horizons , ranging all the way from mana fixing to card advantage to good threats and good removal. When you get to mix these new snow cards with the smattering of snow cards already in the format like Scrying Sheets and Ohran Viper , we get an exciting new archetype never seen before in Modern. Time Stamps : Match 1 - 00:08:06 Match 2 - 00:17:08 Match 3 - 00:38:53 Match 4 - 00:50:29 Match 5 - 01:31:24 They Said Snow! | Modern | Jim Davis Creatures (16) 4 Abominable Treefolk 4 Ice-Fang Coatl 4 Boreal Druid 4 Ohran Viper Planeswalkers (3) 3 Teferi, Time Raveler Instants (3) 3 Force of Negation Sorceries (2) 2 Dead of Winter Enchantments (8) 2 Marit Lage's Slumber 3 On Thin Ice 3 Spreading Seas Artifacts (4) 4 Arcum's Astrolabe Lands (22) 1 Snow-Covered Plains 1 Snow-Covered Swamp 3 Snow-Covered Forest 3 Snow-Covered Island 1 Hallowed Fountain 1 Temple Garden 1 Windswept Heath 3 Scrying Sheets 4 Misty Rainforest 4 Prismatic Vista Sideboard (15) 2 Damping Sphere 1 Dead of Winter 2 Knight of Autumn 1 Negate 4 Rest in Peace 2 Stony Silence 3 Geist of Saint Traft Buy This Deck Export text format Not a bad league! While we did lose an unfortunate match to Eldrazi Tron, it's not hard to see that the deck has some serious game. Force of Negation is one of the most powerful new tools for fair decks in Modern and we use it well, and we're not so blinded by synergy that we can't play great fair cards like Teferi, Time Raveler as well as all the awesome white sideboard cards. There's a lot of potential cards we can play and directions we could go and this level of flexibility and interaction is great. Maybe we could go Temur for Wrenn and Six and Blood Moon ? Or maybe Sultai to go harder on Dead of Winter and some better removal? The core of the deck is Simic, so there's a lot of customization available. Snow is an exciting new archetype in Modern and we're just scratching the surface. Follow Jim Davis on Twitter and Twitch! https://twitter.com/JimDavisMTG https://www.twitch.tv/jimdavismtg
Both Standard and Modern are in a weird spot right now. Standard is in its usual prerotation lull period, where we know that upheaval is coming and therefore don't want to get too invested, but there's an odd twist - Core Set 2020 made some old cards really good again, but in a few months those cards won't be playable anymore. Field of the Dead will no longer have Scapeshift , Sorin, Imperious Bloodlord will no longer have Ixalan's Vampires, Marauding Raptor will no longer have Ixalan's Dinosaurs, and so on. It feels very odd that all of the big new Standard decks of the moment currently rely on cards that are going away very soon. On the Modern side of things everyone is basically just sitting around waiting for Hogaak, Arisen Necropolis to be banned. There is zero doubt in my mind it will be, after putting up unheard of numbers at Mythic Championship IV despite Leyline of the Void being the most commonly played card in the room, the only question is when. The issue is that everyone playing Modern is just in limbo right now; you can't be exactly sure what you want your deck to look like or how your new deck is going to perform in the warped Hogaak metagame, but players also aren't playing Hogaak as much as they 'should' be because nobody wants to invest in a deck that is going to be banned. So we've got the two biggest formats in Magic slogging along in a form of purgatory. What are we supposed to do? Not play Magic? Go outside and do something else? Psssh! Today I've got two exciting decks for each format, which can hopefully hold you over until we leave the rotation/ban-based purgatory we are in. All four of these decks are relatively safe from rotation in Standard and likely to improve in a post-Hogaak world in Modern. There's still fun to be had! Chandra Tribal | Core Set 2020 Standard | Jim Davis Planeswalkers (20) 1 Karn, Scion of Urza 1 Ugin, the Ineffable 2 Chandra, Awakened Inferno 2 Saheeli, Sublime Artificer 2 Tibalt, Rakish Instigator 4 Chandra, Acolyte of Flame 4 Chandra, Fire Artisan 4 Sarkhan the Masterless Instants (10) 2 Flame Sweep 4 Chandra's Triumph 4 Shock Sorceries (3) 1 Jaya's Immolating Inferno 2 Lava Coil Artifacts (3) 1 Mox Amber 2 Chandra's Regulator Lands (24) 14 Mountain 2 Field of Ruin 4 Interplanar Beacon 4 Mobilized District Sideboard (15) 2 Alpine Moon 2 Dire Fleet Daredevil 2 Fry 3 Unchained Berserker 2 Goblin Chainwhirler 3 Legion Warboss 1 Lava Coil Buy This Deck Export text format Export Arena format All Chandra, all the time. There are quite the array of powerful planeswalkers concentrated in Red, and with Chandra, Acolyte of Flame and Chandra, Awakened Inferno joining the party we get to a point where we can build a mono-colored Superfriends-style deck. All three Chandras are card advantage engines with upside, with Fire Artisan providing raw card advantage, Acolyte of Flame providing planeswalker removal and Snapcaster Mage -like access to your graveyard, and Awakened Inferno killing things, sweeping the board, and providing an unstoppable win condition. Chandra's Regulator further compounds how much you can do each turn, while also providing red with atypical card selection. However the best planeswalker in the deck is actually Sarkhan the Masterless , who allows you to turn the corner and kill very quickly. Typically planeswalker decks get stuck in the midgame, where they get a board full of planeswalkers but don't actually kill their opponent who has a chance to go over the top of them with big effects like Nexus of Fate , Mass Manipulation , Scapeshift , or Command the Dreadhorde . Sarkhan kills very quickly. Your other planeswalkers help mount your defenses and shore up your other weaknesses. Otherwise you've got a bunch of removal spells headlined by the underrated Chandra's Triumph to plow the road for your planeswalkers while also keeping your opponent's planeswalkers in check. You also get a lot of value out of your lands by staying one color, allowing full playsets of Interplanar Beacon and Mobilized District which help to keep you alive and turn the corner respectively. You'll be saying "lets light it up!" in no time! Four Color Legends | Core Set 2020 Standard | Jim Davis Creatures (9) 1 Shalai, Voice of Plenty 1 Yarok, the Desecrated 3 Fblthp, the Lost 4 Kethis, the Hidden Hand Planeswalkers (9) 1 Narset, Parter of Veils 1 Teferi, Hero of Dominaria 1 Vraska, Golgari Queen 2 Tamiyo, Collector of Tales 4 Teferi, Time Raveler Instants (2) 2 Tyrant's Scorn Sorceries (8) 2 Urza's Ruinous Blast 2 Yawgmoth's Vile Offering 4 Thought Erasure Enchantments (4) 4 Oath of Kaya Artifacts (1) 1 Mox Amber Lands (27) 1 Hinterland Harbor 1 Isolated Chapel 2 Hallowed Fountain 2 Overgrown Tomb 2 Woodland Cemetery 3 Breeding Pool 4 Drowned Catacomb 4 Glacial Fortress 4 Godless Shrine 4 Watery Grave Sideboard (15) 2 Noxious Grasp 2 Ashiok, Dream Render 3 Hero of Precinct One 2 Duress 1 Narset, Parter of Veils 2 Disfigure 1 Gideon Blackblade 2 Legion's End Buy This Deck Export text format Export Arena format Our next deck is built around a strange but powerful card from Core Set 2020 , Kethis, the Hidden Hand . Kethis, the Hidden Hand is a lot of power in a somewhat difficult to use package. Three colors is a lot, and Kethis demands you play with many legends in your deck or he doesn't do much. Thankfully, many of the most powerful cards in Standard are legendary multicolored planeswalkers! Getting to play an array of powerful planeswalkers is great, and Kethis not only reduces their mana costs but also makes extra use of them when they bite the dust. Teferi is great for keeping the board clear, while Tamiyo helps to fill the graveyard for Kethis. Because the deck is mostly non-creature based anyway, we get to play a lot of interaction and fuel up with Narset as well. In fact, the deck borrows a lot of its midrange core from Esper Control, which is a good pedigree to jump off from. Aside from the more standard interaction of things like Tyrant's Scorn , Thought Erasure , and Oath of Kaya (which is amazing with Kethis), we also get a pair of game-ending legendary sorceries. Urza's Ruinous Blast mops up huge boards while leaving almost all of your stuff untouched, and can be bought back for more with Kethis or Tamiyo. Against decks less interested in going wide Yawgmoth's Vile Offering is a blowout, offering all of the power of The Eldest Reborn in one shot. There's a fear that we are too midrangey against over the top decks like Scapeshift , so we get a sweet sideboard plan of Hero of Precinct One when we need to apply pressure. Most of the cards in the deck are naturally multicolored, and your opponent's should be boarding out a lot of their removal after seeing so few creatures in Game 1. This one's a blast. Modern They Said Snow! | Modern | Jim Davis Creatures (16) 4 Abominable Treefolk 4 Ice-Fang Coatl 4 Boreal Druid 4 Ohran Viper Planeswalkers (3) 3 Teferi, Time Raveler Instants (3) 3 Force of Negation Sorceries (2) 2 Dead of Winter Enchantments (8) 2 Marit Lage's Slumber 3 On Thin Ice 3 Spreading Seas Artifacts (4) 4 Arcum's Astrolabe Lands (22) 1 Snow-Covered Plains 1 Snow-Covered Swamp 3 Snow-Covered Forest 3 Snow-Covered Island 1 Hallowed Fountain 1 Temple Garden 1 Windswept Heath 3 Scrying Sheets 4 Misty Rainforest 4 Prismatic Vista Sideboard (15) 2 Damping Sphere 1 Dead of Winter 2 Knight of Autumn 1 Negate 2 Plague Engineer 4 Rest in Peace 2 Stony Silence 1 Tireless Tracker Buy This Deck Export text format Moving on to Modern, we tackle the under-loved Snow theme that got a big shot in the arm from Modern Horizons . While all the fuss has been about Hogaak, there are a number of great new tools for fair decks as well. While it wasn't an expected theme in Modern Horizons , there is quite the package of good snow cards available. Ice-Fang Coatl is perhaps the most powerful on rate, comparing favorably to Baleful Strix in Legacy, but that's not all. On Thin Ice does a nice Path to Exile impression, but is also a snow permanent to help out our other snow-matters cards. Perhaps the most surprising is Abominable Treefolk , which looks like a Limited card but hits very hard when you get to construct your deck completely. It also dodges a good amount of removal spells and blockers in the format. As far as payoffs go, Marit Lage's Slumber and Dead of Winter are both game-altering effects. And last but not least, perhaps the most important snow card of all, Arcum's Astrolabe does everything you could ever want. Add these to the small package of good snow cards we already had in Modern and things start to come together quite nicely. Ohran Viper is a great offensive threat that also plays great defense, while Boreal Druid is a nice cog. Scrying Sheets is one of our biggest payoffs, providing never ending card advantage at very little cost. Throw in some of the best interactive elements in Modern and you've got quite the midrange package, with tools to handle almost everything. Force of Negation is going to be a very important card in the post-Hogaak world and this deck makes great use of it. Playing four colors also gives you access to a bunch of great sideboard options. This deck is a blast; look for an updated version in my video this coming Monday right here on CoolStuffInc.com! Dice Factory | Modern | Origin Unknown Creatures (5) 1 Walking Ballista 4 Coretapper Planeswalkers (4) 4 Karn, the Great Creator Artifacts (31) 3 Ensnaring Bridge 4 Astral Cornucopia 4 Chalice of the Void 4 Everflowing Chalice 4 Mishra's Bauble 4 Mox Opal 4 Mystic Forge 4 Surge Node Lands (20) 2 Snow-Covered Island 1 Mage-Ring Network 2 Buried Ruin 2 Gemstone Caverns 2 Ghost Quarter 3 Inventors' Fair 4 Blast Zone 4 Darksteel Citadel Sideboard (15) 1 Emrakul, the Promised End 1 Ensnaring Bridge 4 Karn, Scion of Urza 1 Liquimetal Coating 1 Mycosynth Lattice 1 Sorcerous Spyglass 3 Spellskite 1 Tormod's Crypt 1 Welding Jar 1 Witchbane Orb Buy This Deck Export text format Our last deck of the day comes from a random 5-0 list I saved on my desktop a while back and didn't save the deck-builder's name and it's a weird one. The "Dice Factory" shell has been around for a while in numerous forms, sometimes with numerous colors for things like Ancient Stirrings or Whir of Invention . This one eschews all of that for a very straightforward colorless build with some straightforward payoffs. At its core however, is an odd mana engine: Surge Node ? Everflowing Chalice ? Coretapper ? What's going on here? The basic goal of the early game is to use Surge Node and Core Tapper to add lots of counters to Everflowing Chalice and Astral Cornucopia , often both played for zero mana to start. By adding counters every turn you get to make a very large amount of mana very fast, which fuels your endgame. Mox Opal stands in as well as even more broken mana acceleration. Once you've got a ton of mana, Karn, the Great Creator lets you go find Mycosynth Lattice or Liquimetal Coating for the lock down, or other artifact pieces as needed. Mystic Forge also creates quite the engine similar to Experimental Frenzy , further helping you get what you need online, while Inventors' Fair is a free value way to also get what you need. In the end you kill them Walking Ballista or Karn activations after they are locked out. The deck also contains some prison elements for defense. With all the charge counter shenanigans happening this is probably the best Chalice of the Void deck ever, and hiding behind Ensnaring Bridge while you do your Mystic Forge thing also feels great. You get some more value from your lands and sideboard but the core of the deck is fairly straightforward. This deck is wild and creates some crazy game states. It's also surprisingly good! You get to do your thing pretty quickly and Chalice of the Void and Ensnaring Bridge are huge problems for some decks. Just make sure you've got enough dice with you! There's Always Something Fun It can be discouraging when formats feel stale or dead, but there's always something fun to be done. It can often just require thinking outside the box. It can also be refreshing to dip your toes into a different format as well. Used to playing Standard? Why not give Cube draft a shot? Modern player? You could learn a lot from playing Core Set 2020 Limited. Being able to play all different types of formats is a great way to grow and learn as a Magic player, as it helps to develop your overall Magic IQ. Besides, what are you going to do, not play Magic ?
Reanimation spells are always a tough cookie when it comes to Magic design. Make them too cheap, like Reanimate and Exhume , and they come online too quickly to be dealt with. Make them too expensive like Zombify and Rise from the Grave and they are too easy to answer from an already developed board state. Well, recently Wizards of the Coast found the happy medium they were looking for: Adding haste to your five mana reanimation spell means your reanimation target can affect the board immediately, giving you value and the ability to damage your opponent's board state even if they are able to answer it on their turn. Haste is one of the best keywords in Magic , and you get all the power of a card like Through the Breach with the added benefit of not losing your threat. If only we had something really good to give haste... Core Set 2020 delivers again! Time Stamps : Match 1 - 00:05:54 Match 2 - 00:29:15 Match 3 - 00:48:35 Match 4 - 01:27:49 Sultai Reanimator | Core Set 2020 Standard | Jim Davis Creatures (8) 4 Tomebound Lich 4 Drakuseth, Maw of Flames Planeswalkers (6) 2 Narset, Parter of Veils 4 Tamiyo, Collector of Tales Instants (4) 2 Cast Down 2 Disfigure Sorceries (18) 2 Cry of the Carnarium 2 Duress 2 Ritual of Soot 4 Bond of Revival 4 Chart a Course 4 Thought Erasure Lands (24) 2 Island 2 Swamp 3 Breeding Pool 3 Hinterland Harbor 3 Overgrown Tomb 3 Woodland Cemetery 4 Drowned Catacomb 4 Watery Grave Sideboard (15) 2 Duress 2 Negate 2 Enter the God-Eternals 1 Noxious Grasp 1 Search for Azcanta 4 Thief of Sanity 1 Ritual of Soot 2 Ashiok, Dream Render Buy This Deck Export text format Wrapped around a very nice Sultai (but essentially just Dimir) midrange shell, Bond of Revival for Drakuseth is a home run of an endgame. Most of our core cards like Thought Erasure , Cast Down , Narset, Parter of Veils , and friends all have quite the pedigree already, and enablers like Chart a Course and Tomebound Lich fit right in perfectly. Tamiyo, Collector of Tales is our only Green card, but she is well worth the splash as she does basically everything we could ask for. She fills the graveyard, helps us play our midrange control game, and makes it super easy to find the right pieces to reanimate Drakuseth. By keeping the mana base mostly Dimir we also have very easy mana with a number of basic lands as well. If you're looking for fun and power wrapped up into one nice little Standard package, Sultai Reanimator is where it's at. You get to have an insanely powerful and fun win condition, but also play a lot of great proven cards as well, which is typically a recipe for success in Standard. So go forth an burninate the Standard countryside!
Yesterday we went over my Mythic Championship Goblins deck, as well as the finer points of playing the deck and today we've got even more Goblins stuff for you! However, let's quickly go over my predictions for Mythic Championship IV first and see how we did. Then we can get to the Goblin goodness. Prediction One: There Will Be At Least 40 Total Graveyard Hate Cards In Top 8 Correct! My rough count looking over the Top 8 lists was 47 pieces of graveyard hate between maindecks and sideboards, and that's not including ways to fetch them like Karn, the Great Creator or Whir of Invention . With Leyline of the Void being the most played card in the tournament by a wide margin, this one was breeze. Prediction Two: No Player Will Have A Perfect 10-0 Record In Constructed Correct! While there's a ton of Hogaak decks among the 9-1 and 8-2 decklists from the event, no player managed a perfect 10-0 record. Considering the wildness of the Modern format, how swingy some matchups can be, and the wild amount of Hogaak mirrors hinging on Leyline of the Void , this makes a lot of sense. Prediction Three: Jund Will Be Among The Top Four Most Played Decks Partial Credit! So close! While Jund came just two players shy of fourth place among most played decks at the event, it was still strongly in the running for most played decks in the event and put up a very respectable 52.3% win rate, second only to Hogaak decks among decks with at least 20 players. With Jund going from almost unplayed to one of the top played decks and a great win percentage, I'm going to give myself partial credit on this one. Prediction Four: At Least Half Of The 6-0 Drafters Will Make Top 8 Correct! Four players had perfect 6-0 records in Modern Horizons draft at the event: Jack Kiefer, Thoralf Serverin, David Mines, and Jacob Wilson, and both Thoralf and David would go on to make Top 8 (with Thoralf taking down the event). Count it! Prediction Five: Izzet Phoenix Will Underperform With A Sub-50% Win Rate Incorrect! Very close, but Izzet Phoenix managed to swing a just above average 50.8% win rate over a large sample size of 48 players. Certainly not impressive, but just a smidge over the 50% line of my prediction. Better luck next time! Overall a pretty good round of predictions! Goblins Sideboard And Matchup Guide As I spoke about in yesterday's article , Goblins is a deck where your game plan varies drastically depending on what you are playing against. Recognizing what your game plan and endgame is going to look like, and making all of your plays to work toward that endgame, is paramount to your success as a Goblins player. We're going to go over the major matchups in Modern right now, both with sideboard notes as well as a quick bit on how each matchup plays out. But first, our updated decklist: Goblins | Modern | Jim Davis Creatures (32) 1 Pashalik Mons 2 Mogg Fanatic 2 Sling-Gang Lieutenant 3 Goblin Piledriver 4 Goblin Matron 4 Goblin Ringleader 4 Goblin Warchief 4 Mogg War Marshal 4 Munitions Expert 4 Skirk Prospector Instants (1) 1 Tarfire Artifacts (4) 4 Aether Vial Lands (23) 1 Bloodstained Mire 2 Blood Crypt 4 Auntie's Hovel 4 Cavern of Souls 4 Field of Ruin 4 Scalding Tarn 4 Snow-Covered Mountain Sideboard (15) 1 Goblin Cratermaker 1 Goblin Chainwhirler 1 Goblin Trashmaster 2 Icon of Ancestry 4 Leyline of the Void 1 Pashalik Mons 2 Relic of Progenitus 3 Thoughtseize Buy This Deck Export text format While I don't expect it to last past the next banned and restricted update, Hogaak is still legal so we are still going to have the full playset of Leyline of the Void clogging up our sideboard. Two Mogg Fanatic s make their way into the main deck to help slow down decks like Humans in the early game and more importantly try and delay a turn two Hogaak by killing the enabler creatures before they can convoke. If you can delay Hogaak by one turn you can often race it. On to the matchups: Hogaak Unfavorable Matchup Game 1 is tough. The Hogaak matchup is a pure race, and when your opponent is able to play an 8/8 trample on turn two it is pretty hard to race. Prioritize speed over everything and try to take advantage of the fact that they don't block well. If you have prior information to what they are playing before Game 1 mulligan aggressively to a fast hand. Post-board your best bet is to London Mulligan to a Leyline of the Void and let it rip. They can't beat you if a Leyline is in play, as 2/1 beatdown can't ever beat a Mogg War Marshall , but they are fairly resilient at finding an answer to Leyline. Try to use the time they waste answering Leyline to race. If they have Plague Engineer too you're in a world of hurt as you can't afford to leave in answers to it and board in all your graveyard hate. Board in Thoughtseize on the play to try and nab their Nature's Claim and don't be afraid to go down to 3 or 4 cards looking for Leyline. On The Play : In: + 4 Leyline of the Void +2 Relic of Progenitus +3 Thoughtseize +1 Pashalik Mons +1 Goblin Chainwhirler Out: -3 Goblin Ringleader -1 Tarfire -2 Goblin Piledriver -3 Munitions Expert -1 Field of Ruin -1 Skirk Prospector On The Draw : In: + 4 Leyline of the Void +2 Relic of Progenitus +1 Pashalik Mons +1 Goblin Chainwhirler Out: -3 Goblin Ringleader -1 Tarfire -1 Goblin Piledriver -2 Munitions Expert -1 Field of Ruin Izzet Phoenix Even Matchup Izzet Phoenix is a very swingy matchup. For a tribal deck we are surprisingly good against Thing in the Ice ; an active Aether Vial means the Awoken Horror will rarely get that first attack in, we have Goblin Piledriver to block and attack through it, and many of our creatures like Goblin Matron and Ringleader like being bounced anyway. However, we are not as good against quick Arclight Phoenix draws that can cheese us out before we can get our card advantage online. Aria of Flame can also combo us sometimes before we can kill them. If the game gets grindy or slow we are in great shape, but the faster they are the harder it can be for us. Do whatever you can to not get cheesed out via damage and don't be afraid to use real removal on the Phoenixes to save life. Post-board we gain access to Relic of Progenitus to help contain the Phoenix draws and they don't gain a ton. Play grindy but try to recognize when you are going to need to turn the corner quickly to beat multiple Phoenixes or Aria of Flame . In: +2 Relic of Progenitus +1 Goblin Cratermaker Out: -2 Mogg Fanatic -1 Pashalik Mons Eldrazi Tron Favorable Matchup Most of what Eldrazi Tron is doing isn't relevant against you. Chalice of the Void is already unimpressive, and that's before you factor in that Cavern of Souls can allow you to play your 1-drops anyway. Ensnaring Bridge merely slows us down, and big Eldrazi idiots don't battle with us too well. Large Walking Ballista can be annoying, but with four Field of Ruin we can usually keep them off Tron. Just be aware of All Is Dust , play a grindy game, and kill everything with your Munitions Experts . Post-board they don't gain a ton as most of their sideboard is Karn, the Great Creator targets, but you do need to watch out for Torpor Orb if they have it. We gain some nice tools and this matchup is great for us barring some very early Reality Smasher s. In: +1 Goblin Cratermaker +1 Goblin Trashmaster +1 Pashalik Mons Out: -2 Mogg Fanatic -1 Tarfire Humans Even Matchup On paper I would think Humans would be a very good matchup. We have a similar strategy but have a ton of card advantage and removal, and their interactive elements like Meddling Mage and Kitesail Freebooter don't do much. However I've found the matchup to be a little harder than I expected if they can have a fast draw. Play defensively and focus on picking off evasive creatures, taking as little damage as possible, and moving into the midgame so you can out draw them with Goblin Ringleader . Pashalik Mons can be big here as a machine gun. Post-board Auriok Champion is a major annoyance and why I'm not willing to say this is a firm "good" matchup. One Auriok Champion isn't that bad, but if they are able to start copying it with Phantasmal Image and pumping with Thalia's Lieutenant things can get difficult. You can usually overcome the lifegain if you can gain board control as they won't interact with Goblin Warchief at all, but you may die to the unstoppable attackers before you can kill them. If they have Plague Engineer as well you may need to shave more 1-toughness creatures. In: +1 Pashalik Mons +1 Goblin Cratermaker +1 Goblin Chainwhirler Out: -2 Goblin Piledriver -1 Skirk Prospector U/W Control Highly Favorable Matchup The Control matchup is every Goblin player's dream. They have no clock, worthless counterspells, and no way to stop the onslaught of card advantage coming from Goblin Ringleader . It requires careful play on the Goblin player's part, but is an excellent matchup. Make sure you pace yourself and put just enough threats in play to deal damage and stop planeswalkers without walking into Supreme Verdict . Try and hold onto your Goblin Warchief s and haste creatures so you can follow up a Supreme Verdict or planeswalker with a haste threat, and protect your Cavern of Souls from Field of Ruin when you can. Post-board your goal is not to let them cheese you out with some sort of fast win condition like Monastery Mentor . Pace yourself, don't play into counterspells when you can, and make them squirm as they use Path to Exile on your 1/1 Goblin tokens. Avoid fetching for basic lands whenever you can so you can get maximum value from their Path to Exile and Field of Ruin , even if it means fetching a Blood Crypt when you don't need to. In: +1 Goblin Chainwhirler +2 Icon of Ancestry +1 Pashalik Mons Out: -1 Mogg Fanatic -1 Tarfire -2 Skirk Prospector Jund Favorable Matchup The "favorable" tag here assumes they don't have 3-4 Plague Engineer after board, but all and all you grind with Jund very well. Liliana of the Veil looks embarrassing against Mogg War Marshall and Goblin Ringleader , and their best path to victory is cheesing you out with fast Tarmogoyf and Bloodbraid Elf attacks. As long as you don't get cheesed out by a fast double-discard aggro draw, you should be in good shape. If they want to play cards like C and extra removal they can beat us if they want to, but that's not what Jund currently looks like. Post-board we cut down on many of our 1-toughness creatures to lessen our vulnerability to Wrenn and Six and Plague Engineer and continue to grind. Icon of Ancestry is our ace in the hole, as both a preemptive answer to Plague Engineer and Wrenn and Six and a card advantage tool. Relic of Progenitus helps to keep Tarmogoyf in check, and once we can cut the Leyline of the Void and play more this matchup will improve. In: +2 Icon of Ancestry +1 Goblin Cratermaker +2 Relic of Progenitus +1 Pashalik Mons Out: -3 Skirk Prospector -2 Mogg Fanatic -1 Sling-Gang Lieutenant Tron Even To Unfavorable Matchup The good news against Tron is that they aren't really going to interact with you at all. You can fire off a turn two Goblin Warchief off of a Skirk Prospector and get super aggressive going for that turn four kill, which is not a luxury you usually have. The bad news is that if you don't kill them fast their late game vastly outpowers your Goblin Ringleader s. Field of Ruin helps, but it's a pure race. Thoughtseize helps after board, but realistically we're not super prepared for classic Tron. Again, once the Leyline of the Void go we can make room for something like Alpine Moon to improve the matchup. Goblin Trashmaster can help contain Wurmcoil Engine . In: +3 Thoughtseize +1 Goblin Cratermaker +1 Goblin Trashmaster Out: -2 Goblin Ringleader -2 Munitions Expert -1 Tarfire Urza Thopter Sword Favorable Matchup Most of what the Urza Thopter Sword deck is good at, finding Ensnaring Bridge , hating people out with maindeck silver bullets, or assembling Thopter Foundry / Sword of the Meek isn't very good against us. The Thopter/Sword combo is slow in the early turns and Goblin Piledriver gets to rumble through untouched for easy kills with protection from blue. We have tons of ways around Ensnaring Bridge and they don't interact with us very well. Their best chance to win is to cheese us out with a fast Thopter Foundry / Sword of the Meek / Urza, Lord High Artificer combo kill, but that is difficult to assemble early. Post-board we gain access to the all powerful Goblin Trashmaster , as well as getting to shave some of our stinkers. Play aggressively but carefully and do what you can to keep them from comboing. In: +1 Goblin Trashmaster +1 Goblin Cratermaker +3 Thoughtseize Out: -2 Mogg Fanatic -1 Tarfire -2 Goblin Ringleader Other Matchups Those were the eight most played decks at the Mythic Championship, but obviously there are about 20 more viable decks in Modern and we can't cover them all. However, this has been a great spread of different decks ranging from very slow to very fast and all ranges in between. Your goal is to follow a similar paradigm to sideboard as you do to your matchup assessment - Think about how the game is going to end and what sort of plan you need to play for and sideboard accordingly. Against medium to slow decks Goblin Ringleader is usually your best card, but against the faster and more linear decks of the format it is often Goblin Warchief . They won't be interacting, so punish them and kill them as fast as possible. The deck is difficult to play and rewards knowing your matchups, so make sure you get as much practice in as possible. Hedge around Plague Engineer when you can, play tight, and enjoy Goblining people!
While everyone else was deciding how many Leyline of the Void to play in their Hogaak main deck, I was writing "4 Goblin Ringleader " on my decklist at Mythic Championship IV in Barcelona, Spain last weekend. While this was my first Mythic Championship/Pro Tour in a few years, I was not memeing; With the addition of Goblin Ringleader , Goblin Matron , Sling-Gang Lieutenant , and Munitions Expert , Goblins is a legitimately good deck in Modern. Ultimately I would end up with a very medium finish- 3-3 in draft, 5-5 in Constructed, for an overall placing of 179th place (good enough for a top 180 pay jump from min-cash!) - but the entire tournament would end up being skewed by the big bad Gak. Three of my five losses would come at the hands of the Gak, with Ken Yukuhiro and Shahar Shenhar both really going the extra mile by playing multiple copies of Plague Engineer in their Hogaak sideboards. Despite feeling prepared for Hogaak going into the tournament, I still underestimated the deck, both in how much it would be played and how resilient it would be in post-sideboard games against Leyline of the Void . Thankfully the obscene numbers put up by Hogaak at the Mythic Championship all but guarantees that it won't be legal as soon as the ban list gets updated, which makes my 1-3 record against it in the event much more palatable. Including Hogaak, my matchups were as such: Grixis Urza - 2-0 Control - 2-0 Hardened Scales - 1-2 Hogaak - 0-2 Hogaak - 0-2 Whir Prison - 2-0 Control - 2-0 Hogaak - 0-2 Hogaak - 2-0 Burn - 1-2 Most of my non-Hogaak wins were fairly lopsided, and both Hardened Scales and Burn losses were extremely close. We should be expecting a major metagame shift going forward once Hogaak is banned, which should bode well for Goblins if the format continues to trend toward fair decks as the trajectory had been. Force of Negation is great, and Goblins is fantastic against Force of Negation . But enough about my Mythic Championship! This is going to be a two part article, with today showcasing game play and going over the overall strategy of the deck and Friday's article containing the all important updated list and sideboard guide. Let's get to the deck and the games: Goblins | Modern | Jim Davis, 179th Place Mythic Championship IV Creatures (32) 1 Goblin Cratermaker 1 Knucklebone Witch 1 Pashalik Mons 2 Sling-Gang Lieutenant 3 Goblin Piledriver 4 Goblin Matron 4 Goblin Ringleader 4 Goblin Warchief 4 Mogg War Marshal 4 Munitions Expert 4 Skirk Prospector Instants (1) 1 Tarfire Artifacts (4) 4 Aether Vial Lands (23) 1 Arid Mesa 1 Bloodstained Mire 1 Wooded Foothills 2 Blood Crypt 2 Scalding Tarn 4 Auntie's Hovel 4 Cavern of Souls 4 Field of Ruin 4 Snow-Covered Mountain Sideboard (15) 1 Earwig Squad 1 Goblin Chainwhirler 1 Goblin Trashmaster 2 Icon of Ancestry 4 Leyline of the Void 1 Pashalik Mons 2 Relic of Progenitus 3 Thoughtseize Buy This Deck Export text format Formats move fast! With classic Tron winning both the Mythic Championship as well as the SCG Tour open in Columbus last weekend, it's not surprising at all that we played against it twice in this league. My deck was built with Eldrazi Tron in mind, one of the more popular decks at the Mythic Championship, but not classic Tron. We also had some problems with Auriok Champion and Plague Engineer , two cards that will need to be addressed going forward. Thankfully once Hogaak is banned, that opens up a bunch of sideboard space where we can help solve these issues. I don't want to focus too much on the specific results of this league or this decklist because the format is likely to change, but rather the overall strategy of Goblins as a whole. Goblins is perhaps one of the most misunderstood decks in the history of Magic , which unsurprisingly also makes it exceedingly difficult to pilot. Here are some key things to remember for you potential Goblin players out there: Goblins Is Not An Aggro Deck Yes, you are playing a nearly mono-Red deck full of creatures with haste and damage dealing abilities. However, if you treat Goblins like an aggro deck you're going to end up on the wrong side of the match slip more often than not. Nobody is consistently winning games of Magic in Modern by casting Goblin Piledriver into Goblin Warchief and hoping the beatdowns are good enough. The individual power level of your cards isn't high enough to brute force your way through, which means your goal is to set them up to work together to become more than the sum of their parts, and then use them in the proper way that each particular matchup calls for. Goblins Is A Board Control/Combo Deck Develop your mana, kill things, draw cards, make favorable trades, tutor the card you need, draw more cards, eventually win. Sound familiar? In many ways, Goblins plays out like a control deck. You spend the early turns setting up your endgame while interacting, killing your opponent's important pieces and disrupting their overall game plan. Just like a deck playing Jace, the Mind Sculptor or Sphinx's Revelation , you know every resource exchange is good for you because you have the late game inevitability of an extremely powerful card draw engine. Goblin Ringleader will keep the gas flowing until very late in the game when you've finally run out of Goblin Matron s and Goblin Ringleader s to chain together. This ability to out-draw the other fair decks in the format gives you an edge in any game that goes long, which makes it your job to play towards that inevitability. Know Your Role Of course not every deck is going to play fair, and herein lay the challenge; Goblins is a deck that does not have a universal game-to-game plan you can play out in each match. A deck like Tron or Dredge has the same basic plan for each game. Get all three Tron lands in play, play really expensive stuff. Get dredge card in the graveyard, dredge as much as possible. Goblins is very different. Knowing how you want each game to play out and end goes a very long way toward how you need to play each turn of each game. Whereas you can take all of the time in the world against a deck like Control and slowly grind them into dust, if you take the same stance against a deck like Tron or Neoform Combo they will destroy you will their over the top late game. On the other side of things, if you're constantly just using Goblin Matron to find Goblin Warchief and Goblin Piledriver to go for quick kills against decks with lots of removal, you're going to find yourself with no cards in hand and no creatures in play very quickly. Knowing how to approach each individual matchup takes time, patience, and experience, and is the true challenge in playing a deck like Goblins. In some matchups, it is correct to chump block with Goblin Piledriver on turn three. In some matchups, you board out all but one Goblin Ringleader , typically the most powerful card in the deck. How do you know which is right? Have A Plan For Each Matchup The way to figure out when either is correct is to know your role in each matchup and know what your endgame is going to look like. Once you have done this, you can properly asses the value of all your opponent's threats, what cards you need to get with Goblin Matron , and how offensively or defensively you should be playing the game. Every play must be made with a purpose that falls in line with your overall plan. It's correct to chump block with a Goblin Piledriver on turn three when you recognize that the only way you're going to lose is if you get cheesed out by early damage. Taking a five damage shot from an early Tarmogoyf may allow your Jund opponent to get you into Lightning Bolt range and steal a game you've started to run away with via card advantage from Goblin Ringleader . It's correct to board our your Goblin Ringleader s and go into a full-on aggro plan when you are faced with a deck that is much faster than your card advantage engines. A deck like Neoform or Storm isn't going to care how many cards you draw with Goblin Ringleader when they kill you all in one shot. Rather than trying to trade resources and play for the long game, your plan shifts to cards like Goblin Warchief , Goblin Piledriver , and Skirk Prospector , looking to kill as quickly as possible. The beauty of Goblins is that it is capable of playing many different roles, so the option you want is usually there. Sideboard Guide And Updated List These are the nuts and bolts basics to playing Goblins properly. If you're serious about learning to play Goblins in Modern or Legacy these concepts must be learned, and they're pretty timeless as formats change and different cards come and go. As far as the specifics? We'll you'll just have to tune in on Friday where I'll post my updated decklist as well as a sideboard guide for the top matchups in the format!
It's Mythic Championship time and that means it's also Predictions time! As has become tradition here on CoolStuffInc.com , I am here on the eve of the Mythic Championship with my big five predictions for how the event is going to go. With Modern Horizons giving the format a huge shakeup as well as the recent Bridge from Below banning, things are going to be wild. Even cooler is that I am currently in Barcelona as you're reading this, looking to make my own mark on the predictions! Any and all accusations of fixing these predictions can be sent to my editor. Let's get started: Prediction One: There Will Be At Least 40 Total Graveyard Hate Cards In Top 8 Look, I get it. Bridge from Below got banned as big papa Wizards of the Coast came down to save us from the graveyard monster it had created when it printed Hogaak, Arisen Necropolis in Modern Horizons . So all is back to normal right? Wrong. Hogaak is still a really messed up Magic card, even without the ability to mill over your entire deck and your opponent's entire deck in concert with Alter of Dementia . The deck becomes almost entirely one dimensional post-banning, but the dimension of "put 15 power into play on turn two" is a pretty damn good plan A. Hogaak | Modern | Kanister, 1st Place MTGO Modern Challenge Creatures (33) 3 Carrion Feeder 3 Golgari Thug 3 Insolent Neonate 4 Bloodghast 4 Gravecrawler 4 Hogaak, Arisen Necropolis 4 Satyr Wayfinder 4 Stitcher's Supplier 4 Vengevine Instants (4) 1 Darkblast 3 Lightning Axe Sorceries (5) 1 Claim // Fame 4 Faithless Looting Lands (18) 1 Swamp 2 Blood Crypt 2 Bloodstained Mire 2 Gemstone Mine 2 Marsh Flats 2 Overgrown Tomb 2 Polluted Delta 2 Verdant Catacombs 3 Blackcleave Cliffs Sideboard (15) 2 Assassin's Trophy 1 Fatal Push 1 Force of Vigor 4 Leyline of the Void 1 Nature's Claim 1 Plague Engineer 1 Shenanigans 4 Thoughtseize Buy This Deck Export text format MPL member Piotr Glogowski ran a perfect 12-0 record through the weekend Magic Online Modern challenge last weekend, putting everyone who didn't already know on notice that the Gak hasn't gone anywhere. Anyone who is going to do well at this Mythic Championship will be well aware of the decks power, and whether they try to beat Hogaak or just play it themselves they will be packing the appropriate amount of graveyard hate to keep the deck in check. This is no time to skimp on graveyard hate, and those who don't will be rewarded. Prediction Two: No Player Will Have A Perfect 10-0 Record In Constructed Modern is a wild world. The dream for any Mythic Championship or Pro Tour is that some team finds a completely unexpected deck, breaks the format, and runs away with the event totally blindsiding the competition. The thing is, that almost never happens anymore. Modern has been a multi-headed beast for a long time, and there are so many angles and aspects to the format that it's almost impossible to perfectly predict what will happen. Furthermore, the fail rates and raw power of many decks means that sometimes upsets will happen regardless of how a matchup looks on paper. Maybe you've got the expected metagame on lockdown and perfectly tuned your deck for the top six decks in the field, only to end up playing against Bogles or Burn. While at a high level event there will be a much higher concentration of the better decks in the format, Modern is the "play what you know" format and sometimes what your opponent knows is exactly what's good against you. As such, I doubt there will be any dominance in Barcelona. No player will run the Modern tables. Prediction Three: Jund Will Be Among The Top Four Most Played Decks What if I told you that Jund was one of the best decks in Modern right now? Add this to the fact that higher level players tend to love fair decks, especially in Modern, and we're looking at a resurgence of the poster child for "fair" in Modern. And what's the impetus for this Jund resurgence? Wrenn and Six is a hell of a card. If I told you there was a planeswalker that plused to gain card advantage, minused to kill creatures (and could do so more than once and still be alive), and went immediately up to four loyalty when it entered the battlefield I'd imagine you'd be interested. Now what if I told you it cost only two mana? Wrenn and Six is the second two-mana planeswalker ever printed. They were really really (really) safe with the first one, but have held nothing back the second time around. Wrenn and Six is already turning Legacy upside down, and while Modern doesn't have Wasteland it does have many other great ways to use Wrenn and Six . And frankly, just drawing extra lands and cards to discard to Liliana of the Veil is often enough. Wrenn and Six is the real deal, and Jund is the current beneficiary. Prediction Four: At Least Half Of The 6-0 Drafters Will Make Top 8 Modern Horizons Limited is an extremely deep and challenging draft format. There are plenty of draftable archetypes, but they aren't locked on rails like some other synergy-based formats. There's a huge amount of crossover among archetypes and overall strategies, making the draft and deck-build a challenging but rewarding exercise. The players who put in the work will be amply rewarded. With Modern being such a wildcard and Modern Horizons draft being so skill intensive, I have no problem predicting that at least half of the players who manage a perfect record in the draft portion will be able to parley that into a Top 8 berth. The players who run those 6-0s will be very skilled, and as long as they can come out just a little better than average in Modern that should be good enough to get there. Prediction Five: Izzet Phoenix Will Underperform With A Sub-50% Win Rate Izzet Phoenix has been /the/ deck in Modern for a while now. The deck is essentially fair with a number of great interactive elements, but also presents the possible explosive potential of multiple Arclight Phoenix es attacking on turn two or a flipped Awoken Horror attack on turn three. That raw power is necessary to compete in Modern; add that to the fact that the deck is so consistent and interactive and it's not hard to see why it's so popular. However, Izzet Phoenix tends to struggle against Chalice of the Void and good removal for Thing in the Ice backed by graveyard hate. When decks are packing cards like Fatal Push then Thing in the Ice starts to look unimpressive, and if they can keep your Arclight Phoenix in check you become extremely reliant on Aria of Flame to actually win games. With Jund and Eldrazi Tron looking to be very popular and tough matchups like Hogaak and Grixis Urza looming, Izzet Phoenix does not look poised for a great weekend. Modern Across The Pond I am writing this sitting at the airport waiting to board my flight to Barcelona and I'm pretty amped to battle. I am strongly considering a Modern Goblins list very similar to last week's video and am hoping I pull the trigger. How will I do? How will the predictions turn out? We shall see!
Let's face it, Hogaak, the Arisen Necropolis has not had a very friendly introduction to the Modern format. It terrorized us all for a few weeks, ultimately leading to Bridge From Below being banned in Modern and creating an immediate first impression of inciting groans. However, what if we played Hogaak a bit more fairly? Pro Tour Champ Steve Rubin recently 5-0ed a Magic Online league with a very interesting take on Hogaak. Rather than use it in some broken graveyard engine, Steve was instead using it as a powerful endgame threat in a deck designed to strip each player of all of their resources. Smallpox is an extremely powerful card that has been in Modern for a long time, but decks that play it often have trouble closing the game out before their opponent can draw their way back into the game. Hogaak attempts to solve that problem. Time Stamps : Match 1 - 00:0738 Match 2 - 00:37:01 Match 3 - 01:20:17 Match 4 - 01:08:41 Match 5 - 01:39:33 Hogaak Pox | Modern | Steve Rubin Creatures (19) 3 Hogaak, Arisen Necropolis 4 Bloodghast 4 Cabal Therapist 4 Pack Rat 4 Stitcher's Supplier Planeswalkers (4) 4 Liliana of the Veil Instants (3) 3 Fatal Push Sorceries (10) 2 Inquisition of Kozilek 4 Smallpox 4 Thoughtseize Lands (24) 6 Snow-Covered Swamp 1 Dryad Arbor 1 Marsh Flats 4 Mutavault 4 Nurturing Peatland 4 Verdant Catacombs 4 Urborg, Tomb of Yawgmoth Sideboard (15) 2 Plague Engineer 2 Liliana's Triumph 1 Fatal Push 1 Liliana, the Last Hope 3 Fulminator Mage 2 Bitterblossom 4 Leyline of the Void Buy This Deck Export text format Unfortunately our slate of matchups today wasn't too great for us. Wrenn and Six is a huge problem for us as it is able to invalidate our Liliana of the Veil and Smallpox plan, while graveyard decks aren't going to be easy either without Leyline of the Void . Still, there's definite potential here. Cabal Therapist impressed, and Bloodghast provides the fuel to the decks fire by making every card work better. The deck also had an interesting sideboard plan of removing most of the graveyard-based elements to try and beat graveyard hate, but while the plan is good the exact threats themselves do need some tweaking. Either way, it's a fun and exciting new take on an old and popular archetype! If you love Smallpox as much as I do, this is an excellent place to start.
How one views the cards from a new set depends a lot on how they like to play Magic . If you're a Standard player, it's all about finding the cards that stand out and figuring out where they fit in the big picture of the format. For Modern or Legacy players it's much more difficult, as the barrier for entry is so high that only a few scant cards from new sets really make a mark. If you're a limited player, there's a lot to be excited about! Cloudkin Seer holy cow! The more formats you play, the wider your lens needs to be for viewing how each card from a new set fits into the focus of each particular format. As someone who plays all the competitive formats both seriously in tournaments and for a bit more fun on stream and in content, I get to wear a lot of hats and look at cards in many different ways. However there's one more hat in my closet and that is of "Cube Designer," which requires a whole new set of criteria on how to judge cards. When designing a Cube it's less about "is this card good" and more about "does this card help create a healthy and fun environment for what my Cube is trying to do." Evaluating Cube cards is very challenging, but also what makes building a Cube fun. As such, today we are going to look over Core Set 2020 and Modern Horizons for what they've got to contribute to Cube. Core Set 2020 Your average set doesn't often add too many cards to a Cube, even less so when it's a Core Set with a number of reprints that have already been available to Cube designers. The bar is very high and sets can only be so powerful. As we'll see a bit later this trend is broken by Modern Horizons , but that's a whole different story. Core Set 2020 doesn't have a bunch of cards that are too exciting for Cube, but it does have a few possible role players. The first place to look for a new Cube card is in the 1-drops because that's the place with the least competition in a Cube. There are a million great 5-drops that could go in a Cube, but only so many good 1-drops. Knight of the Ebon Legion is very solid, as we've seen in Standard, but unfortunately his Vampire creature type doesn't matter at all in Cube. Still, he's a durable 1-drop that scales well into the late game and offers an aggro deck a reasonable mana sink. He's not flashy, but when your competition is Vampire Lacerator and Tormented Hero it's not too hard to make a mark. Verdict : A likely addition Let's keep the one-drop train rolling. Elvish Reclaimer seems tailor built for Cube play; it features a reasonable size body that can size up pretty quickly in a world of fetchlands, while also featuring a tutor effect which is always a desirable attribute in Cube. There are a multitude of awesome lands available, which makes Elvish Reclaimer 's ability to cast Crop Rotation over and over again a very useful one that can facilitate fun deck-building. I don't know exactly what you'd want to do with Elvish Reclaimer , but I know there are many interesting possibilities. The issue is that there needs to be a home for Elvish Reclaimer . What deck wants this effect? If your Cube contains some sort of lands or lands-matter theme, Elvish Reclaimer will fit right in, but as a card that isn't just universally good there needs to be consideration for placement. Just like you wouldn't put Goblin Ringleader into a Cube with only three other Goblins, Elvish Reclaimer needs a job to do. Verdict : In if it has a clear purpose One more 1-drop. I've already waxed poetic about Spectral Sailor , but the reality is that it is a lot of value for one mana. While Blue aggressive decks are not usually well supported in most Cubes, Spectral Sailor can also make some waves as a cheap card draw engine for control decks that plays very well with the bevy of great counterspells in the Cube. The issues here are if there are enough decks that will actively want Spectral Sailor , and also the extremely high barrier of entry into any Cube's Blue section. Still, it's a unique effect on a cheap creature in a color with very few good cheap creatures. I just can't resist the best Azure Mage of all time! Verdict : It will be tried While the barrier for entry for one-drops is very low, the barrier for entry for planeswalkers is very high. One of the most common and egregious Cube design mistakes is including far too many planeswalkers, which has a dramatic influence over the gameplay of the Cube. You stop being able to make all sorts of different decks and everyone just ends up with a midrange planeswalker pile. Chandra, Acolyte of Flame is a sweet Magic card with a lot going on. Token generation can be wholly aggressive, or do other interesting things with sacrifice outlets and the lot, while flashing back spells is also very cool. Sadly she just isn't better than the other planeswalker options, meaning she should probably only make the cut in very large Cubes or Cubes that heavily promote a theme she is invested in. Verdict : Falls just short Yes, I know, Golos, Tireless Pilgrim looks more like a fun casual card than a serious Cube card. However, one half of a Primeval Titan that any color can cast for five mana is actually a very good effect. As we said about Elvish Reclaimer there are tons of great lands to get, and Golos gets them at a decent rate with a good sized body. Furthermore, Golos' activated ability is kinda wild and fun but ultimately a very powerful thing to build toward. It might be a little crazy, but the thought of being able to fetch up a Tolarian Academy or Maze of Ith while also adding a really fun and flashy endgame puzzle sounds appealing to me. Verdict : Just crazy enough to work For the most part that's all Core Set 2020 has to offer. A quick word on the omissions: Mythic Planeswalkers : The planeswalkers in Core Set 2020 are all well designed, but too narrow in scope and power level for Cube play. Unless your Cube has a very specific Vampire or life gain theme there just aren't good enough. Cavaliers : The cavalier cycle pales in comparison to other options at five mana. They're embarrassing next to the titan cycle and don't bring much to a Cube. Three Color Legends : The barrier for three colored cards in a Cube is almost unbreakable, and while Kethis, the Hidden Hand and friends are reasonably powered they are narrow in scope. When you're already extremely hard to cast you need to be a big payoff every single time. Core Set 2020 is pretty normal in regards to what it adds to the Cube card pool. However, Modern Horizons is something else entirely. Modern Horizons Oh boy. Modern Horizons is wreaking havoc across both Modern and Legacy and it makes a lot of sense that the set full of cards "too good for Standard" would be jam packed full of power. While most sets have a small handful of potential cards, Modern Horizons has a boatload, with a number of "must adds" as well. Let's start with the big one. Wrenn and Six is just busted, while also having a fun build around me theme that can help give more identity to Green and Red as a color pair. It loves being paired with fetchlands, cycling lands, Wasteland , and all sorts of other land-themed effects, bringing with it an extremely high power level, the ability to interact with all sorts of early creatures, and a game altering ultimate. Wrenn and Six may be the best card in Modern Horizons. Verdict : Should be in every Cube Another easy one. Fetchlands are great. Color fixing is great. Put this in your Cube. Verdict : Should be in every Cube Hexdrinker is overhyped in Modern and Legacy. It's essentially just a Savannah Lion with mild upside, which is fine but very unexciting. However, as we said earlier there's a much lower bar in Cube for good 1-drops and Hexdrinker fits the bill perfectly. There aren't a ton of great aggressive one-drops in Green that aren't just mana creatures, so Hexdrinker gets to fill a nice niche at a good power level with a solid floor and a big ceiling. That's a lot of value for one mana, especially for a card that scales so well into the late game. It's not a wham bam slam dunk like Wrenn and Six , but Hexdrinker should be in most Cubes. Verdict : Should be in most Cubes Slam dunk after slam dunk. There isn't really a question that the Horizon Canopy lands should be in the Cube; they're color fixing and they're great. The big question becomes what to do with them because there are only six of them, which is a really awkward number if you're trying to keep your Cube uniform. I've always had one set of ten multicolored lands in my Cube that encompassed one land for each color pair from various cycles. You want to have Creeping Tar Pit in your Cube, but don't want to have Lavaclaw Reaches ; you want to have Simic Growth Chamber but not Boros Garrison ; etc. Here's where I'd be currently: Creeping Tar Pit Celestial Colonnade Horizon Canopy Kessig Wolf Run Temple of Malice Sunbaked Canyon Firey Islet Simic Growth Chamber Golgari Rot Farm Silent Clearing I still like having a few bounce lands for the turbo lands-style decks and will be working forward with this configuration to start. It's important to consider what each color combination wants to be doing! When the full cycle of Horizon Canopy lands is here it will end up just having its own ten card cycle slot and we will figure something else out for the oddball lands. Verdict : Most to all should be in all Cubes Okay, we've got the easy stuff out of the way, let's get to one of the most complicated issues - snow in Cube? There aren't that many snow cards that actually matter, meaning there may be half a dozen total cards in the Cube that will care about the word snow. However, if you stop thinking about snow mana being snow mana and start thinking about it just being "basic lands matter" things become much clearer. You could easily make all basics in your Cube snow-covered lands, which immediately adds more value and interest to playing basics to help turn on cards like Dead of Winter and friends. The question becomes, are these cards powerful enough only triggering off basics? Even a card like Icehide Golem offers a Cube-worthy rate if paid with snow mana, but is needing to play a lot of basics enough of a turn off that they won't see play? My gut says they are too awkward, but they are fun cards that make you value your basic lands in a unique way, so they are definitely worth trying. Anything that makes you actively want to play basic lands and adds tension to how you build your decks is a win in my book. Verdict : Worth trying, but may not be worth the trouble While he many have terrorized Modern for a while there, Hogaak is actually a pretty cool card once you take Bridge from Below and a fully refined Modern deck out of the picture. Cube decks don't routinely put 12 power into play on turn two, meaning Hogaak needs to be played fairly and worked for, which is exactly what I want to see from my Cube cards. If every card is a Jace, the Mind Sculptor , Lightning Bolt , or Treachery , then it just becomes my good cards against your good cards. Cards like Hogaak inspire your drafters to take a trip down a certain deck-building path, make hard deck-building and drafting choices while having to alter how they value cards, and ultimately lead to a great gameplay experience. Verdict : Unless you hate synergy, Hogaak slots well into a Golgari slot Okay, on the one hand we're always on the lookout for good Cube 1-drops. On the other hand, I try to avoid extreme redundancy whenever possible. The Cube can only be so big, and by having both Armageddon and Ravages of War you're wasting a slot on a card that could be something more unique. There are outliners to this for cheap effects that define a color ( Lightning Bolt / Chain Lightning , Birds of Paradise / Llanowar Elves , Thoughtseize / Inquisition of Kozilek ) but for the most part I try to avoid it, especially on powerful or unique effects. Mother of Runes qualifies as a powerful and unique effect, to the point of almost being annoying. Yes, Giver of Runes is the "fixed" Mother of Runes and is still a very good card, but having both doesn't feel right. Verdict : Only in if you cut Mother of Runes or your Cube is huge Another sweet tutor and synergy card? Sign me up! The fixed love-child of Goblin Welder and Stoneforge Mystic , Goblin Engineer brings a lot of power to the table but doesn't risk unfun things like turn two Sundering Titan or Blightsteel Colossus . You get to put together whatever artifact synergies you want, while also getting to do the Goblin Welder thing of swapping stuff back and forth for value over and over again which is sweet too. I only see good things when I see Goblin Engineer . Verdict : If you have an artifact theme Goblin Engineer fits great One of the hardest things with handling Red in your Cube is finding more interesting things for it to do than just attack and Lava Spike people. Many Cubes have this problem, as if you just take the best Red card in any draft you end up with a cohesive deck because they all do the same thing. Variety is very important! Goblin Engineer helps to do that, as does Magmatic Sinkhole . Most removal spells in Red also double as burn spells, meaning you can just pile them up and kill your opponent. Magmatic Sinkhole gives Red a very good removal spell that is going to be good against almost all of your opponents and can also answer things that Red typically struggles with (higher toughness creatures and high loyalty planeswalkers). Having more answers to planeswalkers in your Cube is a goal you should have anyway, making Magmatic Sinkhole a slam dunk. Verdict : Should be in every Cube Reasonable body? Reasonable ability? Tutor effect? Card advantage in White? Props up 1-drops? All those things sound great to me! Ranger-Captain of Eos is a card that does a lot and can be played as an aggressive card or a value card, while also helping to pull together certain things if that is what you're looking for. There aren't many 3-drops better. Verdict : Should be in every Cube If Undead Augur was in Standard it would be one of the best 2-drops in the format. A 2/2 that can replace itself for only two mana is already great, but Undead Augur is so much more when paired with other Zombies that things can start to get out of hand. Tribal themes don't go too far in my Cube, but there are light Human and Zombie themes which really help to give more of an identity to fast aggressive decks. Just jamming garbage like Vampire Lacerator rarely works, which is why Black aggro is often maligned in Cubes, but when you top off your Gravecrawler and Carrion Feeder with something like Undead Augur , good things start to happen. Cryptbreaker is another great early creature that does a lot of unique things that fits the theme. Verdict : Should inspire a light zombie theme even in your non-tribal Cube Seasoned Pyromancer is just the right kind of Cube card. Yes, it is a powerful card in a vacuum. It grinds well, scales well into the late game, provides card advantage, and gives you a mana sink once it's dead. But if it was just another good fair card I'd only be mildly excited. The great part about Seasoned Pyromancer is that it gives graveyard decks an excellent and powerful way to get cards in the graveyard for good value. Maybe you're playing fair and discarding Lingering Souls ? Or maybe you're thinking bigger and it's Griselbrand . Either way Seasoned Pyromancer gets to be more than the sum of its parts, while not forcing the synergy decks to play with subpar enablers. Seasoned Pyromancer is great. Verdict : Should be in most Cubes There's More? These are all the Modern Horizons cards I feel can make the Cube in most Cubes. Are there more cards worth talking about? Absolutely! But it's important to recognize that any card that costs four or more mana has extremely heavy competition, and good Cube cards need to be castable, flexible, and hopefully create meaningful gameplay and drafting/deck-building choices. If there are any other cards you would like to see discussed please post them in the comments and I'll do my best to address them. Otherwise, happy Cubing!
Everyone knows how upset I was when Goblin Ringleader wasn't in Modern Horizons . It felt like the perfect card for Modern; everyone loves tribal decks, great nostalgia, and realistically a 4 mana spell that draws cards is never going to be broken. Yet Modern Horizons came and went, and while we got Goblin Matron we didn't get her favorite target. Enter Core Set 2020 . While it's true we don't have the mana denial element present in Legacy with Wasteland and Rishadan Port , for the most part all the tools are here. Recent reprints of Skirk Prospector and Goblin Warchief join the party, giving us the entire lineup minus Gempalm Incinerator and Goblin Lackey . Goblin Lackey is a relic of the past power level anyway, and in lieu of Gempalm Incinerator we have the new Munitions Expert doesn't do as well for card advantage but can pick off planeswalkers. So let's do it! Time Stamps: Match 1 - 00:09:39 Match 2 - 00:27: 45 Match 3 - 01:04:21 Match 4 - 01:41:12 Match 5 - 02:30:25 Vial Goblins | Modern | Jim Davis Creatures (32) 1 Goblin Chainwhirler 1 Goblin Cratermaker 1 Pashalik Mons 1 Siege-Gang Commander 1 Sling-Gang Lieutenant 2 Goblin Piledriver 2 Munitions Expert 3 Knucklebone Witch 4 Goblin Matron 4 Goblin Ringleader 4 Goblin Warchief 4 Mogg War Marshal 4 Skirk Prospector Instants (1) 1 Tarfire Artifacts (4) 4 Aether Vial Lands (23) 1 Mutavault 2 Blood Crypt 4 Auntie's Hovel 4 Bloodstained Mire 4 Cavern of Souls 4 Field of Ruin 1 Snow-Covered Swamp 3 Snow-Covered Mountain Sideboard (15) 2 Earwig Squad 2 Goblin Trashmaster 1 Warren Weirding 1 Zo-Zu the Punisher 3 Relic of Progenitus 2 Munitions Expert 3 Thoughtseize 1 Grafdigger's Cage Buy This Deck Export text format Wow, that was impressive! Full disclosure, I expected to have a fun time with some old friends in this video. I didn't expect that we would 5-0 through a gauntlet that represented a good portion of the Modern metagame. The truth is that Modern is in a pretty fair place right now and Goblins slots into that metagame very well. Goblin Ringleader gives Goblins one of the best card draw engines in the format, while the deck still has the speed to deal with linear decks when necessary. Remember this very important fact: Goblins is not an aggro deck! Goblins can kill quickly, but you're better off thinking of it as a synergy-based board control deck that's ready to strike but always geared up for a long game. The new cards impressed, with Munitions Expert 's ability to hit planewalkers making it live in almost every matchup. More maindeck are probably wanted. Sling-Gang Lieutenant felt gimmicky going in, but gives the deck the very unique effects of both fireballing your opponent as well as gaining life when needed. Pashalik Mons was fine but unexciting. The most important advice I can give is look for your path into the long game, and don't be too cute with your one-ofs! There are tons of Goblins that are good a small percentage of the time, but you see a lot of your cards every game and you can't afford to draw Stingscourger or Lightning Crafter at the wrong time. Otherwise may your top four cards always contain four goblins!
Wilderness Reclamation untapping Azcanta, the Sunken Ruin. Nissa, Who Shakes the World fueling huge Hydroid Krasis . Heroic Reinforcements giving haste to the second History of Benalia token. Runaway Steam-Kin fueling massive Experimental Frenzy turns. In the later stages of a Standard format, we tend to take for granted some of the clever card pairings that make up the format's best decks. Once they've been firmly established we just accept them as what they are and forget about the parts that make up the whole. However at some point early in the format a player or players had the idea to try them together and it gelled so well that it became a cornerstone of the format. Trying to find those pairings in a new format is vitally important if you want to be ahead of the game, as the first few weeks of a new Standard format is the time period where you can gain the largest edge possible in a Constructed format. So let's take a look at what Core Set 2020 has to offer and try and find the next great pairing of cards. We utilized this combo in our video Monday alongside the guildgates and their associated payoffs, but realistically you can play Scapeshift and Field of the Dead in almost any deck as a big combo finish. Seven lands in play nets you seven zombies, and it scales up exceedingly well once you throw in a second copy of Field of the Dead . Furthermore, each additional land drop will net you another zombie or two, making this one of the premier endgames in the format. One card combos don't exist very often in Standard, but that's exactly what Scapeshift promises you if you can just get those first seven lands in play. Just like in Modern, this can be via ramp spells or by just playing a longer game. There are some deck-building costs associated with making sure you have the proper number of unique land types, but playing a random gainland or temple isn't the end of the world. You can even milk some value out of it by playing cards like Field of Ruin , Blast Zone , or Arch of Orazca . Scapeshift and Field of the Dead won't be legal together for very long, but they will certainly be a fixture together for as long as they are. There's no doubt that Risen Reef is one of the most powerful and hyped cards in Core Set 2020 , with many new decks trying to abuse it's power. It is being compared to Rogue Refiner , but Risen Reef has an astoundingly higher ceiling than Rogue Refiner could ever dream. Rogue Refiner is a nice value card, but Risen Reef is a engine. The big question of course is "how to run the engine?" Is it okay to just play Risen Reef alongside a few other elementals like Leafkin Druid and Wildgrowth Walker ? Do you want to go all the way with a full elemental theme? Do we branch out into more colors? What cards play best with Risen Reef ? To answer the last one we have another one of the more exciting cards in Core Set 2020 , Chandra, Acolyte of Flame . Risen Reef adds "draw two cards and play lands for free" to Chandra's middle loyalty ability, which amounts to an obscene amount of value. Add this to the fact that Chandra is a great three-mana planeswalker and you've got a very interesting duo. Chandra requires a certain amount of cheap spells to get full value, and finding room in your elemental deck for that can be tough, but the synergy here is undeniable. Speaking of Chandra, making and sacrificing two creature tokens a turn falls right in line with everything a Rakdos Aristocrats deck has ever wanted to do. You can sacrifice them both to Priest of Forgotten Gods , pump them with Judith, the Scourge Diva sacrifice them to Plaguecrafter , and more, with perhaps the most exciting combo being Mayhem Devil adding on a free Forked Bolt every turn. Once again, Chandra is already a good card, and adding on these sorts of extra synergies is what takes a card from good to great. Rakdos sacrifice-based decks have been on the fringes of Standard for a while now, but it's possible that Chandra could be what it takes to push them over the edge. There's no doubt that Risen Reef and Nissa, Who Shakes the World are two of the most powerful cards in Standard right now. Each one creates an insurmountable advantage if it is left to its own devices, but each is also hard to answer profitably. In Modern, White decks get to turn to a suite of powerful hate bears to turn off what decks want to do. Thalia, Guardian of Thraben , Gaddock Teeg , Meddling Mage , Ethersworn Canonist ... the list goes on and on. Well what if I told you Standard has some hate bears too? Tomik, Distinguished Advokist and Tocatli Honor Guard both help to answer each of the aforementioned cards in their own way, while also being difficult for typical Simic decks to kill. Tomik removes the ability for Nissa to make any creatures while being a very well costed attacker, while Tocatli Honor Guard is weaker overall but much more devastating for the elemental package as well as the explore package. Wow Jim... play Sorin, Imperious Bloodlord with other Vampires... that's the groundbreaking strategy advice then pay you the big bucks for! Okay, stop sassing and listen to me for a minute. Yes, Sorin is a great card and plays very well with Vampires. Champion of Dusk is a powerful Vampire payoff card that was always a little too expensive to be worth playing. Put them together though and you've got a match made in heaven (or wherever Vampires usually hang out). However the important thing to note here is what this pairing does for the Vampire archetype as a whole. Typically Vampires was just seen as a beatdown deck similar to White Weenie. You play 1-drops, you pump them up, and you attack. Some of the most successful Vampire decks even played Venerated Loxodon , further displaying the White Weenie connection. However, the introduction of Champion of Dusk , the potential for massive card advantage, and the flexibility and power of Sorin have taken Vampires far beyond just a mindless tribal deck. There's more method to the madness and new Vampire decks need to be built with this in mind. With such a great card advantage engine there isn't a need to try and blitz opponents out with 1-drops, and cards like Legion Lieutenant may be more of a liability than is necessary now. Don't just add new cards to existing decks, think about how new cards can fundamentally alter what an old deck is trying to do. Speaking of new cards altering what an old deck can do, remember the sweet Golgari Dredge deck that was floating around for a while? It was packed to the brim with self mill cards like Glowspore Shaman and Stitcher's Supplier , while trying to get paid off with some undergrowth effects and looping Molderhulk and Memorial to Folly . The problem was it did a lot of wheel spinning and not a lot of interacting just to get a few 6/6s. Blood for Bones may just change that. Blood for Bones is a great value card, but it can be more if you put in the work. Sacrificing a Stitcher's Supplier to bring back a Jadelight Ranger to your hand and a Molderhulk to play is a fantastic value play, but Blood for Bones also opens up a world of potential endgame power as well with Lotleth Giant . Golgari Dredge decks used to play one copy of Lotleth Giant to try and dig up with Memorial to Folly and cast in the late game, but that was a very convoluted and expensive play. Now we can do it for four mana with a card that's already good with the rest of the deck. It may not make Golgari Dredge good enough, but Blood for Bones is a powerful card that shouldn't be overlooked. Every time an Omniscience is put into the battlefield off of a Flood of Tears , an angel gets its wings. The thing is, it isn't actually that crazy. There's a lot of murmuring going around about Flood of Tears being a breakout card this weekend at SCG Tour Worcester, the first Standard event of the new format, and much of it is on the back of the fact that Omniscience was inexplicably in Core Set 2019 . With Standard Simic ramp decks trying constantly to outdo each other with the biggest possible endgame - currently Mass Manipulation for six - Omniscience certainly presents the most absolute endgame imaginable. Simic Flood | Standard | Pykapower, 5-0 Magic Online League Creatures (11) 3 Arboreal Grazer 4 Leafkin Druid 4 Risen Reef Planeswalkers (9) 1 Jace, Wielder of Mysteries 4 Narset, Parter of Veils 4 Tamiyo, Collector of Tales Sorceries (5) 1 Overflowing Insight 4 Flood of Tears Enchantments (10) 3 Gift of Paradise 3 Omniscience 4 Urban Utopia Lands (25) 5 Forest 6 Island 2 Blast Zone 4 Breeding Pool 4 Hinterland Harbor 4 Temple of Mystery Sideboard (15) 4 Healer of the Glade 3 Negate 1 Nezahal, Primal Tide 3 Nissa, Who Shakes the World 2 Sorcerous Spyglass 2 Spell Pierce Buy This Deck Export text format Export Arena format Yes this is a deck that went 5-0 in a Magic Online league. It's not that hard to figure out that if you get an Omniscience onto the battlefield you should be able to win, but with Tamiyo, Collector of Tales able to infinitely re-buy Flood of Tears you get to reuse all of your planeswalkers and Risen Reef s as many times as you want, ultimately cumulating in a Jace, Wielder of Mysteries kill. This may eventually be proven to be too soft and non-interactive for Standard, but the memo is out that Flood of Tears is a real Magic card. Top Pair, Top Kicker Of course, even if you find the killer pair of cards in Standard, there has to be a deck to go along with them as well. Core Set 2020 promises to shake up Standard in a big way, hopefully throwing a wrench into Esper-Teferi-Fest that dominated the tail end of the previous format. Not only are many of the new cards specifically good against Teferi, Time Raveler , but the power level of Core Set 2020 is high enough that things should be mighty interesting mighty quick. I'm excited, and you should be too!
When Scapeshift was reprinted in Core Set 2019 it felt like a purely financial reprint. While Scapeshift has proven to be a popular and on-and-off successful card in Modern, the card served little to no purpose in Standard. Well, that is until now of course. Core Set 2020 brings with it Field of the Dead , a Valakut, the Molten Pinnacle for a new day, singlehandedly bringing Scapeshift out of the rare binder and into the game as a serious player in new Standard. With seven lands in play a Scapeshift grants you seven zombies, and with eight or more lands in play things start to get really out of hand. The "with different names" clause creates some unique deck-building tension, but fortunately we already had a ramp deck in Standard that played a bunch of different lands. Mash it all together, and you've got Gate-Shift: Time Stamps : Match 1 - 00:06:05 Match 2 - 00:23:08 Match 3 - 00:51:18 Match 4 - 01:03:47 Match 5 - 01:45:09 Gate-Shift | Core Set 2020 Standard | Jim Davis Creatures (13) 2 Archway Angel 2 Elvish Rejuvenator 2 Hydroid Krasis 3 Golos, Tireless Pilgrim 4 Arboreal Grazer Instants (4) 4 Growth Spiral Sorceries (12) 4 Circuitous Route 4 Gates Ablaze 4 Scapeshift Enchantments (4) 4 Guild Summit Lands (27) 1 Forest 1 Azorius Guildgate 1 Boros Guildgate 1 Golgari Guildgate 1 Selesnya Guildgate 1 Stomping Ground 1 Temple of Mystery 2 Breeding Pool 2 Field of the Dead 4 Gruul Guildgate 4 Izzet Guildgate 4 Plaza of Harmony 4 Simic Guildgate Sideboard (15) 1 Arch of Orazca 2 Deafening Clarion 3 Legion Warboss 3 Chandra, Awakened Inferno 2 Teferi, Time Raveler 3 Negate 1 Archway Angel Buy This Deck Export text format Export Arena format Melding Scapeshift with the traditional Gates shell is almost a no brainer, pairing together the new combo some of the best ramp in the format backed by powerful payoffs like Gates Ablaze and Guild Summit . Some memey Gates decks actually played Scapeshift previously just for a lot of Guild Summit triggers, but now we've got a real reason to play the card and Guild Summit is just a bonus. Gates Ablaze is one of the best sweepers in the format, and when your opponent is feeling the pressure of an impending combo and is trying to kill you quickly, a 3 mana sweeper is exactly what you want. Gates Ablaze is also great against Nissa, Who Shakes The World , and the whole deck is fairly resistant to Teferi, Time Raveler . Golos, Tireless Pilgrim is also another huge addition to the deck, playing the role of Primeval Titan as well as late game mana sink. Golos is a huge, hard to kill blocker than can directly get you a Field of the Dead so you can start naturally making zombies without needing to cast Scapeshift . This deck may look like a meme, but some form of Scapeshift combo is likely to be one of the best decks in Standard for the few months that Scapeshift and Field of the Dead are legal together. This is certainly the first step, but the grafting of an amazing combo onto an already proven deck is a great place to start!
Warning! The decks you are about to see are mostly untested first drafts! They were played live on steam this Monday as my first stab at the new Core Set 2020 Standard format. Most are brews jam packed with new Core Set 2020 cards, while there are a few updates to existing archetypes with new Core Set 2020 twists, but it's important to note that these are first steps and not finished products! Use them as stepping stones for your own deck brewing process, but play them card for card at your own risk! With that out of the way, let's get started! Core Set 2020 is one of the most interesting sets in a while, in that it provides a bunch of fun new cards for us to parse and play with, but also a bunch of help to previous Standard themes that never quite got there like Dinosaurs, Vampires, Goblins, and more. Because of the help it gives to themes that had previously fell short, the set ends up feeling much bigger than it actually is because it makes all of those old cards playable in addition to all of the new cards it brings. As such, this is a very interesting time to brew! Today we're going over all ten decks I played on stream Monday, briefly going over each list and my thoughts on how it was, giving it a letter grade, and talking about what kind of potential it has going forward. I played five to six games with each deck in best of one so the deck's record will be included as well. Let's go! Goblins! Goblins! | Core Set 2020 Standard | Jim Davis, First Draft 4-2 Creatures (35) 1 Krenko, Tin Street Kingpin 2 Ember Hauler 2 Volley Veteran 3 Fanatical Firebrand 3 Wily Goblin 4 Goblin Chainwhirler 4 Goblin Instigator 4 Goblin Ringleader 4 Goblin Warchief 4 Siege-Gang Commander 4 Skirk Prospector Artifacts (2) 2 Icon of Ancestry Lands (23) 23 Mountain Buy This Deck Export text format Export Arena format Deck Grade : C+ Deck Potential : Medium Where else would I start? Goblins was at a very odd place in Standard, with Dominaria reintroducing Skirk Prospector , Goblin Warchief , and Siege-Gang Commander to a format with very little other support for the tribe. There wasn't enough meat for a full deck and Goblin Chainwhirler , the best Goblin in the format, didn't require any help and was an active deterrent to putting a bunch of 1/1s in your deck. There just wasn't enough of a payoff for putting a bunch of Goblins into your deck. Well now there is. While notably absent from Modern Horizons , Goblin Ringeader makes a surprising appearance in Core Set 2020 as one of the best tribal incentives in a long time. Goblin Ringleader cares very much about how many Goblins are in your deck, while also giving you a huge payoff for making that number as high as possible. With Goblin Ringleader joining Siege-Gang Commander , Goblins in Standard certainly has the ability to grind with the best of them and the new Icon of Ancestry further pushes the power level, providing a boost to your many 1/1s and even more late game draw power. The issue is that your one and 2-drops are lacking, which means you can fall behind before Goblin Ringleader can really get you going. Wily Goblin just isn't good enough, and while the new Ember Hauler is passable the deck is lacking in the early game. Still, Icon of Ancestry is great and Goblin Ringleader provides a ton of cards and is great against planeswalkers. There's definitely something here. Temur Elementals Temur Elementals | Core Set 2020 Standard | Jim Davis, First Draft 4-1 Creatures (20) 4 Chandra's Embercat 4 Cloudkin Seer 4 Leafkin Druid 4 Omnath, Locus of the Roil 4 Risen Reef Planeswalkers (9) 2 Chandra, Novice Pyromancer 3 Chandra, Awakened Inferno 4 Chandra, Acolyte of Flame Instants (3) 3 Shock Sorceries (4) 2 Fight with Fire 2 Jaya's Immolating Inferno Lands (24) 3 Mountain 2 Breeding Pool 3 Steam Vents 4 Rootbound Crag 4 Stomping Ground 4 Temple of Epiphany 4 Unclaimed Territory Buy This Deck Export text format Export Arena format Deck Grade : B+ Deck Potential : Very High From an old classic to the new school. Elementals are the tribe of Core Set 2020 , with this deck featuring almost primarily cards from the new set. They look weird but the elemental crew, led by the seemingly innocent Risen Reef , creates quite the engine. They make a lot of incidental mana quickly, which leads to some fast starts topped off with Omnath, Locus of the Roil and many Chandras. Risen Reef guarantees value immediately, but if it's allowed to live the advantage in both cards and mana it creates is astounding. The other element of the elemental deck is how well it plays with multiple Chandras. Chandra, Acolyte of Flame is probably the best Chandra in the format, and using her token generation ability to power up Risen Reef is a dream come true. She also pressures planeswalkers and allows you to flash back spells which we will get to later. Chandra, Awakened Inferno is quite the top end, throwing emblems at slower decks while sweeping up other creature decks. Chandra, Novice Pyromancer was surprisingly effective but may not be good enough. You need to have some interaction beyond Omnath and also want spells for Chandra, Acolyte of Flame to flash back, leading us to some burn spells. The idea was to use spells that could be flashed back later for a lot of mana, and while Jaya's Immolating Inferno was impressive Fight With Fire was just too much mana to be reliable. Having access to Shock for spot removal felt very important. This deck has a long way to go before it hits its final form, but there's something serious here. Dinosaurs Dinosaurs | Core Set 2020 Standard| Jim Davis, First Draft 3-2 Creatures (28) 2 Carnage Tyrant 3 Raptor Hatchling 3 Shifting Ceratops 4 Llanowar Elves 4 Marauding Raptor 4 Ranging Raptors 4 Regisaur Alpha 4 Ripjaw Raptor Instants (3) 3 Shock Sorceries (6) 2 Savage Stomp 4 Commune with Dinosaurs Lands (23) 10 Forest 5 Mountain 4 Rootbound Crag 4 Stomping Ground Buy This Deck Export text format Deck Grade : C Deck Potential : Low to Medium Dinosaurs was one of the biggest flops from Ixalan , as the tribe never really made it past it's few key cards being played in non-dinosaur decks. There just wasn't enough synergy to go around and Enrage was only really good against other Red and Green decks. Marauding Raptor certainly is the shot in the arm that Dinosaurs needed, covering basically every single problem the deck had. It's a good, worthwhile early creature that provides mana acceleration, scales well into the late game, and makes Enrage a relevant mechanic. Curving turn two Marauding Raptor into turn three Ripjaw Raptor is awesome, and Marauding Raptor breathes new life into cards like Ranging Raptors and Raptor Hatchling . However, that's really it as far as upgrades go. Shifting Ceratops is okay but just more of the same, leaving Dinosaurs a slightly better deck than it was but still aggressively mediocre. If Dinosaurs is going to succeed it's probably just going to be a few of the new cards tacked into the Charging Monstrosaur Gruul deck that has been floating around. Vampires Vampires | Core Set 2020 Standard | Jim Davis, First Draft 4-1 Creatures (26) 1 Elenda, the Dusk Rose 1 Mavren Fein, Dusk Apostle 1 Oathsworn Vampire 2 Champion of Dusk 2 Sanctum Seeker 3 Knight of the Ebon Legion 4 Adanto Vanguard 4 Dusk Legion Zealot 4 Legion Lieutenant 4 Vicious Conquistador Planeswalkers (5) 1 Sorin, Vengeful Bloodlord 4 Sorin, Imperious Bloodlord Instants (2) 2 Cast Down Enchantments (4) 4 Legion's Landing Lands (23) 5 Plains 6 Swamp 4 Godless Shrine 4 Isolated Chapel 4 Unclaimed Territory Buy This Deck Export text format Export Arena format Deck Grade : B+ Deck Potential : High Another Ixalan tribe that never really got off the ground, Vampires was always a bit short in the power level department. There just weren't enough reasons to put a bunch of vampires in your deck. Boy has that changed. Wowzers is Sorin, Imperious Bloodlord amazing. Sorin singlehandedly breathes life into the archetype, providing basically anything you could ever want in your Vampire deck for an easy to cast three-mana investment. Sorin helps to buff your creatures and push them through blockers, gains life, kills creatures, kills planeswalkers, kills players, is very durable, and can even put things into play for free! It's hard to undersell how much power Sorin brings to the table. Sorin also props up some very powerful Vampires that were always just a little too high on the curve to be super effective. Champion of Dusk is a powerful payoff for putting Vampires into your deck, but five mana was a lot to ask for a card that wasn't great if you were behind. How about putting Champion of Dusk into play on turn three while also adding a planeswalker to the board? Sanctum Seeker is similar, having a huge effect on the board while also being reasonable to cast when you don't have Sorin. The exact mix of threats will need to be figured out, as you can't go too crazy with the bigger Vampires and have your deck not function when you don't draw Sorin, but Sorin singlehandedly makes Vampires a thing in Standard. Karn And Friends Karn And Friends| Core Set 2020 Standard | Jim Davis, First Draft 2-4 Creatures (13) 2 Sai, Master Thopterist 3 Fblthp, the Lost 4 Golos, Tireless Pilgrim 4 Renowned Weaponsmith Planeswalkers (9) 2 Saheeli, Sublime Artificer 3 Karn, Scion of Urza 4 Karn, the Great Creator Sorceries (2) 2 Karn's Temporal Sundering Artifacts (13) 2 Mox Amber 2 Scrabbling Claws 2 Sorcerous Spyglass 3 Treasure Map 4 Powerstone Shard Lands (23) 14 Island 1 Arch of Orazca 1 Blast Zone 1 Memorial to Genius 3 Field of Ruin 3 Mobilized District Sideboard (15) 1 Chamber Sentry 1 Fountain of Renewal 1 Mox Amber 1 Manifold Key 1 Grafdigger's Cage 1 Silent Gravestone 1 Sorcerous Spyglass 1 Crucible of Worlds 1 Chromatic Lantern 1 Scrabbling Claws 1 Traxos, Scourge of Kroog 2 Meteor Golem 1 God-Pharaoh's Statue 1 Bloodtallow Candle Buy This Deck Export text format Export Arena format Deck Grade : D- Deck Potential : Cute, But Nothing More Renowned Weaponsmith is actually a very powerful mana creature for artifacts, but while it joins powerful artifact enablers like Sai, Master Thopterist and Karn, Scion of Urza , there just aren't enough reasonable artifacts to fill out a full decklist. The idea was to use Karn, the Great Creator as a sort of artifact factory, allowing you to pull out whatever artifacts you needed from your sideboard to make up for the relative lack of reasonable artifacts in the main deck, but the deck completely lacked in both speed and interaction. We couldn't stop our opponent's from executing their game plan and our game plan just wasn't powerful enough to matter half the time. The upside was that Golos, Tireless Pilgrim was actually very good, which we will see more of later. This deck was cute, but ultimately ineffective. Sultai Reanimator Sultai Reanimator | Core Set 2020 Standard | Jim Davis, First Draft 5-0 Creatures (8) 4 Drakuseth, Maw of Flames 4 Tomebound Lich Planeswalkers (6) 2 Kasmina, Enigmatic Mentor 4 Tamiyo, Collector of Tales Instants (7) 3 Cast Down 4 Growth Spiral Sorceries (13) 1 Golden Demise 2 Enter the God-Eternals 2 Ritual of Soot 4 Bond of Revival 4 Chart a Course Enchantments (1) 1 Search for Azcanta Lands (25) 1 Island 4 Breeding Pool 4 Drowned Catacomb 4 Hinterland Harbor 4 Overgrown Tomb 4 Watery Grave 4 Woodland Cemetery Buy This Deck Export text format Export Arena format Deck Grade : A- Deck Potential : High This was one of the most exciting and powerful decks we played all stream. Drakuseth, Maw of Flames is unbelievably powerful if it gets a chance to attack, and utilizing the haste aspect of Bond of Revival with Drakuseth provided us with an incredibly potent combo. Not much instant speed removal can kill Drakuseth before it gets to attack, and even if our opponents were able to remove Drakuseth on their next turn their board was often decimated. With Tamiyo, Collector of Tales fueling the graveyard and allowing us to re-buy whatever we need it wasn't hard to reset up for another Bond of Revival attack the following turn. With so few cards necessary to facilitate the combo, the rest of the deck is essentially just a Sultai Midrange/good stuff deck that is already packed full of interaction. Tomebound Lich is another fantastic new card for the deck, providing a looting effect to get Drakuseth into the graveyard while also playing defense against the aggro decks and offense against the slower decks. This deck was impressive. Mardu Angels Mardu Angels | Core Set 2020 Standard | Jim Davis, First Draft 3-3 Creatures (25) 3 Aurelia, Exemplar of Justice 3 Resplendent Angel 3 Shalai, Voice of Plenty 4 Bishop of Wings 4 Kaalia, Zenith Seeker 4 Lyra Dawnbringer 4 Seraph of the Scales Planeswalkers (1) 1 Sorin, Vengeful Bloodlord Instants (4) 2 Cast Down 2 Shock Sorceries (6) 2 Deafening Clarion 2 Flame Sweep 2 Lava Coil Lands (24) 1 Mountain 1 Plains 1 Blood Crypt 2 Isolated Chapel 3 Clifftop Retreat 4 Godless Shrine 4 Sacred Foundry 4 Temple of Silence 4 Temple of Triumph Buy This Deck Export text format Export Arena format Deck Grade : C Deck Potential : Medium While I'm not a huge fan of midrange decks there's no denying their success in Standard, and Kaalia, Zenith Seeker seemed tailor made as a splash in the old Boros Angels deck. Kaalia is a very powerful Magic card on rate; just compare her to Rogue Refiner , a card previously banned in Standard. She's a 3/3 flying vigilance that draws you a good card, rather than a ground 3/2 that draws you a random card with some energy. Naturally she's harder to cast, but there's a lot of power there worth building around. Bishop of Wings also gave the deck the 2-drop it's always wanted, providing a great blocker, life buffer, and some insurance if your angels die. Overall the deck felt very midrangy and didn't fare too well, but if the format is right for it something like this could be a thing. Gate-Shift Gate-Shift | Core Set 2020 Standard | Jim Davis, First Draft 4-1 Creatures (14) 2 Archway Angel 2 Golos, Tireless Pilgrim 2 Hydroid Krasis 4 Arboreal Grazer 4 Elvish Rejuvenator Instants (4) 4 Growth Spiral Sorceries (12) 4 Circuitous Route 4 Gates Ablaze 4 Scapeshift Enchantments (3) 3 Guild Summit Lands (27) 1 Forest 1 Azorius Guildgate 1 Boros Guildgate 1 Golgari Guildgate 1 Selesnya Guildgate 1 Stomping Ground 1 Temple of Mystery 2 Breeding Pool 2 Field of the Dead 4 Gruul Guildgate 4 Izzet Guildgate 4 Plaza of Harmony 4 Simic Guildgate Buy This Deck Export text format Export Arena format Deck Grade : B+ Deck Potential : Very High It looks like a meme, but this was probably the most powerful deck we played over the course of the entire stream. It felt like we were playing Modern and everyone else was playing Standard. The gates engine is already fairly proven, but the introduction of Field of the Dead tacks on a completely different angle of attack. Much like Scapeshift in Modern plus Valakut, the Molten Pinnacle , Scapeshift in Standard plus Field of the Dead is going to provide you with an absurd advantage, creating anywhere from 7 to 20ish Zombie tokens out of nowhere, while also providing you with additional Zombies for each land drop as well as cards drawn from Guild Summit . That's insane! With acceleration like Arboreal Grazer , Growth Spiral , and Elvish Rejuvenator helping to speed things up and Gates Ablaze making a mockery of creature decks, this deck is the real deal. It's unclear exactly which and how many additional threats you want, as well as the exact mix of lands, but we've got a serious contender here. Chandra Tribal Chandra Tribal | Core Set 2020 Standard | Jim Davis, First Draft 5-0 Planeswalkers (20) 1 Karn, Scion of Urza 1 Ugin, the Ineffable 2 Saheeli, Sublime Artificer 2 Chandra, Awakened Inferno 2 Tibalt, Rakish Instigator 4 Chandra, Acolyte of Flame 4 Chandra, Fire Artisan 4 Sarkhan the Masterless Instants (8) 4 Chandra's Triumph 4 Shock Sorceries (5) 2 Flame Sweep 3 Lava Coil Artifacts (3) 1 Mox Amber 2 Chandra's Regulator Lands (24) 16 Mountain 4 Interplanar Beacon 4 Mobilized District Buy This Deck Export text format Export Arena format Deck Grade : A- Deck Potential : Medium to High We've seen all sorts of Superfriends decks in Standard, but what happens when you're your own best friend? There's some weird time paradox stuff going on here, but the "Chandra theme deck" was actually very impressive. Red already had a great cast of planeswalkers in Standard, but the introduction of two new Chandras and a very powerful Chandra-themed artifact sends everything into overdrive. Chandra, Acolyte of Flame is phenomenal, pressuring planeswalkers and flashing back removal spells, but also helping to up the loyalty on all of your planeswalkers at once. Chandra, Awakened Inferno drops in at the top end to mop up small creatures or put your opponent in the emblem fix. Chandra's Regulator was surprisingly effective, not only for doubling up on abilities but giving the Mono-Red deck the ability to control its draw step for a very reasonable cost. Sarkhan the Masterless and Saheeli, Sublime Artificer have already proven their worth in planeswalker centric decks, making this deck a great collection of removal and proven threats. It can sit back and kill stuff and control the game to an extent, but has no problem turning the corner and winning quickly when needed. Sarkhan, Saheeli, and Chandra, Acolyte of Flame all do a good job at pressuring enemy planeswalker as well. This is one to watch. Azorius Fliers Azorius Fliers | Core Set 2020 Standard | Jim Davis, First Draft 5-0 Creatures (33) 2 Sephara, Sky's Blade 2 Spectral Sailor 2 Tomik, Distinguished Advokist 3 Venerated Loxodon 4 Duskborne Skymarcher 4 Empyrean Eagle 4 Hanged Executioner 4 Healer's Hawk 4 Loyal Pegasus 4 Rustwing Falcon Planeswalkers (2) 2 Teferi, Time Raveler Enchantments (4) 4 Favorable Winds Lands (21) 4 Island 9 Plains 4 Glacial Fortress 4 Hallowed Fountain Buy This Deck Export text format Export Arena format Deck Grade : B+ Deck Potential : Medium to Low "Operation Dumbo Drop" was perhaps one of our most successful decks we played on stream, as we simply ran over people very quickly in a very short time frame. New cards like Empyrean Eagle and Hanged Executioner were excellent, melding perfectly with Favorable Winds and the already existing suite of cheap flying threats. This provided both a very fast and evasive clock, as well as the ability to play Sephara, Sky's Blade fairly early as well. Spectral Sailor and Loyal Pegasus were also very nice additions to the 1-drop slot. The problem was that in five games only one opponent actually killed one of our creatures, making this 5-0 result look a lot better than it is. When facing no interaction this deck is going to kill very quickly, but the fear is that the individual power level of our cards is too low once things start getting picked apart. Sephara, Sky's Blade looks mighty foolish when your first three creatures get killed. Venerated Loxodon also didn't really play out as expected, as our flying creatures didn't want to take a turn off to get larger, and they didn't need to get larger because there were no blockers to get through. If you're looking to dunk on people who are trying out new decks this deck excels at that, but it may fall apart when faced with serious opposition. So Much More To Do! There are so many more decks I want to try! I played this one yesterday on stream and went 4-1 and feel like I'm barely scratching the surface: Life Gain | Core Set 2020 Standard | Jim Davis, Bonus Decklist Creatures (15) 3 Famished Paladin 4 Ajani's Pridemate 4 Bloodthirsty Aerialist 4 Healer's Hawk Planeswalkers (8) 2 Gideon Blackblade 2 Sorin, Vengeful Bloodlord 4 Ajani, Strength of the Pride Instants (4) 4 Nightmare's Thirst Enchantments (9) 2 Dawn of Hope 3 Oath of Kaya 4 Ajani's Welcome Lands (24) 5 Plains 5 Swamp 2 Temple of Silence 4 Godless Shrine 4 Isolated Chapel 4 Scoured Barrens Sideboard (15) 3 Basilica Bell-Haunt 1 Dawn of Hope 2 Dreadhorde Invasion 4 Duress 1 Gideon Blackblade 2 Kaya, Orzhov Usurper 2 Mortify Buy This Deck Export text format Export Arena format This deck was great too! Core Set 2020 Standard is here and we're just getting started. What do you think? Where's your Core Set 2020 Standard adventure going to begin?
Do you enjoy pointing a Lightning Bolt at your opponent's face? Do you like casting a lot of spells? Do you like a lot of triggers and drawing cards? Do you like killing your opponent on turn three? Do you like having some money left over to actually buy dinner after the tournament? Well have I got a deck for you! Time Stamps : Match 1 - 00:06:54 Match 2 - 00:22:06 Match 3 - 00:47:27 Match 4 - 01:08:46 Match 5 - 01:38:26 Blister Burn | Modern | Jim Davis Creatures (13) 2 Bedlam Reveler 3 Blistercoil Weird 4 Monastery Swiftspear 4 Soul-Scar Mage Instants (17) 2 Gut Shot 3 Mutagenic Growth 4 Lava Dart 4 Lightning Bolt 4 Manamorphose Sorceries (12) 4 Crash Through 4 Lava Spike 4 Light Up the Stage Lands (18) 14 Snow-Covered Mountain 2 Fiery Islet 2 Sunbaked Canyon Sideboard (15) 2 Shrine of Burning Rage 3 Abrade 2 Surgical Extraction 2 Molten Rain 2 Flame Slash 1 Bedlam Reveler 3 Tormod's Crypt Buy This Deck Export text format Blister Burn was born from the Mono-Red Phoenix decks that were making the round when Arclight Phoenix first came out, based on the realization that the metagame was not only hostile to Arclight Phoenix , but also that it just wasn't very good in the deck. If you didn't draw Faithless Looting , Arclight Phoenix would usually rot in your hand, and other options to discard it like Tormenting Voice simply weren't good enough. Instead Blister Burn pushes the suite of one-mana prowess creatures to the max, pairing them up with the most efficient burn and card draw Red has to offer. With nine spells that are effectively free in the deck ( Manamorphose , Gut Shot , and Mutagenic Growth ), as well as the flashback on Lava Dart , explosive turns are the name of the game as it's not hard to deal upwards of twenty damage on turn three. With such a low land count and Light Up the Stage and Crash Through providing velocity, you get to play a lot of spells very quickly which makes your creatures very large. The trample of Crash Through is also surprisingly very relevant as it makes punching through chump blockers a breeze. Bedlam Reveler tops the 'curve' and gives you some reach in longer games. With a powerful, fun, and proactive gameplan, Blister Burn is one of my favorite decks in Modern right now. It is also much cheaper than your average Modern deck, and with a few tweaks can drop right into budget range making it an excellent first deck for any new Modern player. Have fun casting spells and make sure you tell your opponent "upstairs!" when they ask where that Lightning Bolt is going! Bonus Budget Blister Burn | Modern | Jim Davis Creatures (13) 2 Bedlam Reveler 3 Blistercoil Weird 4 Monastery Swiftspear 4 Soul-Scar Mage Instants (18) 3 Gut Shot 3 Mutagenic Growth 4 Lava Dart 4 Lightning Bolt 4 Manamorphose Sorceries (12) 4 Crash Through 4 Lava Spike 4 Light Up the Stage Lands (17) 17 Mountain Sideboard (15) 3 Abrade 1 Bedlam Reveler 2 Flame Slash 2 Molten Rain 1 Ravenous Trap 2 Shrine of Burning Rage 4 Tormod's Crypt Buy This Deck Export text format
It feels like War of the Spark just came out last week (and Modern Horizons came out yesterday), but here we are getting ready for another big shakeup in Standard! Core Set 2020 is here, bringing with it a bunch of new toys for Standard. One of the most intriguing things about the set is how heavily it props up the unsuccessful Ixalan themes, with a lot of support for underrepresented tribes like Vampires and Dinosaurs. It is great to see those tribes get the help... but Ixalan rotates in a few months! Still, we've got quite the collection of tools for decks old and new, so let's get started. Here are my loves and hates for Core Set 2020 ! Love - Sorin, Imperious Bloodlord Look, I know tribal-based planeswalkers haven't done very well historically. Yeah, grabbing a Nissa's Chosen or two with Nissa Revane was all right, but Liliana, Untouched by Death was downright embarrassing. I'm here to tell you that Sorin, Imperious Bloodlord is different. Very different. For starters, three mana is much less than four. Sorin is easy to cast and comes down early, while also going right up to five loyalty if needed. This is very important, made even more obvious by the fact that Standard is currently defined by a three mana planeswalker that can start on five loyalty. But while Sorin is much more restrictive than Teferi, Time Raveler , there is still a lot of power there. Yes you must play a bunch of Vampires to make Sorin work, but the payoff is huge. Sorin makes your vampires bigger, pushes them through blockers, gains life so you can race (and afford more Adanto Vanguard activations), and is a repeatable removal spell for creatures, planeswalkers, and players! That is a lot of value for only 3 mana, and those are just the plus abilities! The -3 ability won't be used nearly as often, but being able to put more things on the board, even if it's just another Adanto Vanguard is a powerful option to have. While you'd need to go to Modern to put anything absurd into play Show and Tell -style, something like Champion of Dusk is a powerful curve topper in Standard and would be excellent on turn three. Sorin singlehandedly makes Vampires a playable deck in Standard. Hate - Mu Yanling, Sky Dancer Three mana planeswalkers are usually great, but they can't all be great. Mu Yanling, Sky Dancer slides into the "flying matters" theme present in Core Set 2020 , but fails because of how few options it presents you. While Sorin can pump up your different creatures, target all sorts of things, and put things into play the turn you cast it, Mu Yanling does one thing: She gives an opponent's creature -2/-0 and makes it lose flying. That is all she can do the turn you cast her and that's simply not good enough. Mu Yanling is often going to play as "Three mana, suspend 1, make a 4/4 flying token" and in a world of Teferi, Time Raveler bounces and abundant removal that's not even close to good enough. She could see some sideboard play out of Blue aggressive decks against control decks just by virtue of being a non-creature threat against removal heavy decks, but that's because planeswalkers are just good in general, not because she is good. Mu Yanling is a total miss. Love - Lightning Stormkin Lightning Stormkin is not a world beater. It's not a Teferi, Time Raveler or a Nissa, Who Shakes The World . It's not a card that defines a format, nor a card that makes the game completely revolve around it. Rather, Lightning Stormkin is a Blue collar Magic card. It shows up to every game ready to put in the work, gets along well with all of your other cards, and wants to clock out at the end of the day knowing it did its part as best it could. It probably shares a lunch break with Paradise Druid , Skymarcher Aspirant , Elite Guardmage , and Viashino Pyromancer , where they all talk about grabbing a beer at happy hour when the tournament is over and maybe watching some Twitch.tv at the bar. It's easy to ignore cards like Lightning Stormkin , but identifying them early makes deck-building for a new format much easier. A 2/2 haste flier for two mana is excellent, but Lightning Stormkin goes beyond that by providing two relevant creature types, as well as possibly touching the "flying matters" theme as well. Don't forget, Wizard's Lightning and Adeliz, the Cinder Wind are still legal in Standard, and Izzet Wizards decks have been on the edge of playability for a while now. Lightning Stormkin may just be the cog they need to work. Without a job to do, Lightning Stormkin may end up unemployed, but the grit and hard work is there waiting for someone to pick it up. Hate - Omnath, Locus of the Roil This card couldn't have cost three mana? At its floor, Omnath, Locus of the Roil is a difficult to cast Hill Giant that deals one damage to a creature when it enters the battlefield and landfalls to be a little bit bigger. That's hardly playable in Limited, let alone worth the absurd mana cost in Constructed. Clearly Omnath is meant to be played with other elementals in a tribal style deck, but the issues here are numerous. Omnath barely compares favorably to Volley Veteran , a card that has seen no play in a much better, single color tribe. Furthermore, Omnath doesn't really reward you for playing a bunch of elementals beyond his enters the battlefield trigger; if his landfall trigger gave all elementals a +1/+1 counter maybe we could talk more, but it's likely still not worth the investment of four color-intensive mana for a 3/3. Omnath is clunky, expensive, fragile, and unexciting. Elementals are going to need to do a lot better than this if they're going to be anything worth playing. Love - Lotus Field Lotus Field scares me. At face value, Lotus Field isn't really worth the trouble. While there isn't really anything in Standard that could punish you for putting all your eggs in one basket, Lotus Field is awkward to use because you get all 3 mana in one lump, monochromatic sum. This makes it tough to use as a manafixer because while it taps for any color, most multicolored decks are interested in cards like Nicol Bolas, the Ravager , not Goblin Chainwhirler . So you really need to be doing something more with Lotus Field to be getting good value out of it, and something more is going to mean tapping it more than once a turn. There are two very good ways to do so in Standard at the moment: Teferi, Hero of Dominaria and Kiora, Behemoth Beckoner . Teferi is the better of the two in a vacuum, but leaves you Limited to only casting instants with your extra Lotus Field mana. Kiora however is something else entirely. If you play Kiora on turn three, when you play Lotus Field on turn four you'll have access to 6 mana that turn, and 8 mana the next. That's a lot of mana in a very short time frame, without having to rely on fragile mana creatures. This is a big deal. Add this to the fact that this combo can fit into any deck with green or blue mana and you've got quite the engine. Watch out for Lotus Field . Hate - Cavalier of Gales Wizards of the Coast really likes to make a big cycle of Mythic rares in Core Sets. We started with Primeval Titan and friends (which was a bit too far over the mark), then saw Soul of Innistrad and friends (which was quite a bit below the mark), and most recently saw the tri-colored Elder Dragon legends in Core Set 2019 (more casual staples than Constructed powerhouses). Well the Core Set 2020 cycle is the Cavaliers, and they look much like their NBA namesake does without Lebron James- embarrassing. While they do have some immediate effect when they are played, Brainstorm or Beast Within hardly compare to Moan of the Unhallowed or Arc Lightning . And unlike the titans, they don't threaten to single handedly take over the game once they attack. Lastly the Cavaliers also fail the Teferi test; the enters the battlefield triggers aren't nearly worth their costs, meaning that Teferi just embarrasses them. Cavalier of Gales is the best of the set and doesn't stack up well next to God-Eternal Kefnet . Just like Lebron James, I'll take a pass on these Cavaliers. Love - Hanged Executioner Another solid role-player, Hanged Executioner is a very nice little package for three mana. Essentially just the front half of a Lingering Souls , Hanged Executioner comes with a nice little rider text that allows you to exile an opponent's creature. This ability will not be used super often, but the existence of it will dramatically change how your opponents have to play their games. Think about how good it feels when your opponent uses a removal spell on your Lingering Souls token, and then realize that Hanged Executioner is a card that incentivizes your opponent to do just that. That's great! Being a spirit is also surprisingly relevant, as it's easy to forget that Supreme Phantom is still a Standard legal Magic card. And of course, "flying matters" is also a theme in Core Set 2020 , and two fliers for three mana with upside is pretty good. Favorable Winds is still legal, as well as new cards like Winged Words and Empyrean Eagle . Hanged Executioner is simple and effective; I'm a fan. Hate - Leylines (Yes, All Of Them) Why do they keep printing more Leylines? It has to be one of the worst mechanics ever, and they're rarely playable except in extreme scenarios where you need Leyline of the Void or Leyline of Sanctity to defend against early game degeneracy. The opportunity cost of putting Leylines into your deck is so high because they are never even close to worth four mana. So you end up with a card that is okay if it is in your opening hand, and basically uncastable if you draw it literally any time after that. It's an awful gameplay experience, and yet they keep going back for more. Would Leyline of Combustion even be playable as anything more than a sideboard card at one mana? Do we really need weird, super high variance sideboard cards? Why put Leyline of Anticipation into Teferi, Time Raveler Standard? Why do I have to listen to people tell me how perfect, eight card turn two kills are now possible in Standard because of Leyline of Abundance ? The literal only good thing about Leylines in Core Set 2020 is that Leyline of the Void and Leyline of Sanctity will go down in price. That's it. Love - Marauding Raptor Where was this card last year?! When Dinosaur was introduced as a creature type in Ixalan, the excitement level was high. Dinosaurs are a huge part of our culture and the thought of them tromping around on Magic battlefields next to Elves, Angels, and Dragons was just awesome. The problem was that they never really got the support they needed to break into competitive play. Medium-sized midrange ground creatures frankly aren't that exciting, and enablers like Drover of the Mighty and Otepec Huntmaster were too fragile to make much of a difference. The enrage mechanic also flopped because it was only very good against Red and Green. Better late than never right? Marauding Raptor is awesome, attempting to solve basically all of Dinosaur's problems at once. It's a cost reducer, it's sized well, it attacks well, and most importantly it makes enrage actually matter! Get your Ranging Raptors and Ripjaw Raptors ready, because Dinosaurs are finally ready to take the stage. Old And New I'm not gonna lie I am super pumped to start brewing up Core Set 2020 Standard decks. There are a lot of new exciting things to do, as well as a lot of powerful upgrades to decks that just weren't quite there yet. By propping up cards that previously didn't have enough support it's almost like the set is much bigger than it is, because those Dinosaurs, Vampires, Goblins, and Spirits that aren't seeing play are now on the table too. ? GET READY FRIENDS ? pic.twitter.com/MJqbikvogR — MTG Arena (@MTG_Arena) June 19, 2019 I'll be jamming out ten new Standard brews on my stream this coming Monday as part of the special MTG Arena Core Set 2020 streamer preview, and next Friday you can expect me to go over all ten decks with grades and reports on how they did and what to expect from them in the future!
So far Hogaak, Arisen Necropolis has stolen most of the thunder from Modern Horizons . The Hogaak Bridgevine deck has taken the format by storm, to a level that has players calling for bans in a manner that may actually be properly founded. However, it's not all doom and gloom! There's a ton of fun cards in Modern Horizons beyond the Hogaak menace, ranging from sweet reprints to intriguing throwbacks to all new toys. Force of Negation is one of the most hyped cards in the set, and for good reason, as it helps give fair decks a new and powerful tool to handle the myriad of broken things you may play against in any given match of Modern. However, that's not the only Modern Horizons card I'm interested in... Time Stamps : Match 1 - 00:07:12 Match 2 - 00:33:33 Match 3 - 00:54:38 Match 4 - 01:13:53 Match 5 - 01:26:17 Dimir Ninjas | Modern | Jim Davis Creatures (18) 1 Fallen Shinobi 2 Ninja of the Deep Hours 3 Snapcaster Mage 4 Faerie Seer 4 Ingenious Infiltrator 4 Mausoleum Wanderer Instants (23) 1 Logic Knot 1 Mana Leak 1 Tyrant's Scorn 1 Vapor Snag 3 Spell Pierce 4 Disrupting Shoal 4 Fatal Push 4 Force of Negation 4 Opt Lands (19) 1 Marsh Flats 3 Watery Grave 4 Darkslick Shores 4 Polluted Delta 4 Scalding Tarn 1 Snow-Covered Swamp 2 Snow-Covered Island Sideboard (15) 2 Ceremonious Rejection 1 Hostage Taker 4 Surgical Extraction 2 Deathmark 2 Thoughtseize 2 Collective Brutality 1 Hurkyl's Recall 1 Countersquall Buy This Deck Export text format Ninjas return in Modern Horizons , and while Ninja of the Deep Hours has made waves in Pauper and in Cubes it has never really had a successful jump into Modern and Legacy. Well maybe that's because he never had a best friend before! Ingenious Infiltrator is a strictly better upgrade to Ninja of the Deep Hours , providing a crucial extra point of toughness as well as the ability to stack up many draws. Paired up with another Modern Horizons surprise, Faerie Seer , we start to see a unique Blue-based aggressive deck take shape. With the ability to be aggressive and draw loads of cards, we turn to an eight pack of pitch-counterspells as the new Force of Negation joins Disrupting Shoal to allow you to continue to develop your board as you stymie your opponent's progress. Sprinkle in some of the best and cheapest interactive Dimir spells and we've got an aggressive tempo deck that is going to be hell on any spell-based deck. Of course, as we saw in the matches we're also going to struggle against creature based decks with so much of our countermagic focused on non-creature spells. Game 1 against Hogaak-based decks also seems tough, but both matchups can be tuned with proper sideboarding. If you're looking for an extremely fun deck that is fantastic against spell-based decks, it's hard to go wrong with Ninjas!
Wait what? We're in preview season again ? Didn't War of the Spark just come out? Oh wait, I mean Modern Horizons . God, I just can't keep up anymore! It certainly doesn't help the new set fatigue that both War of the Spark and Modern Horizons were hugely influential sets and we've barely scratched the surface of their effects on all formats, but here we are once again. Core sets are nice for Wizards of the Coast because they have a much wider berth than with normal expansions. They can reprint cards that seem good for Standard, plug holes, and prop up themes that aren't as good as they thought they would be and have it still make thematic sense. There are no restrictions like there are with sets located on certain planes, so they can print that extra dinosaur or vampire with no continuity-based issues. Core Set 2020 is already looking like a powerful and impactful set, so today we're going to take our first gander at the card list and talk about some cards that stood out to me at first glance. Let's go! Where else would I start? Many of my early big finishes were with Goblins. They won me my first PTQ, took me to Top 8 of Grand Prix Dallas 2006, got me a number of early SCG Tour Open Top 8s, and took me all the way to the finals of an early SCG Tour Invitational. I doubt there are many players who have put Goblin Ringleader into play more than me and it's not short selling it to say it's one of my favorite cards of all time. I was very surprised when it wasn't in Modern Horizons , as Goblins feels like it would be a very fun deck for the format that would be tame by current Modern standards. Well now we see why! Rather than just being relegated to the world of Modern, we get to play Goblin Ringleader in Standard as well! The question of course is will he have any friends? It is very odd they chose to print a handful of good Goblins in Dominaria and Core Set 2019 , including old friends Goblin Warchief and Siege-Gang Commander as well as new tribal cards like Volley Veteran , but didn't give them the support they would have needed to make an impact. Now we get Goblin Ringleader ... only to see the other good Goblin cards rotate out in a few months. Regardless, Goblin Ringleader asks a lot but also provides you with the worthwhile payoff you need to commit yourself to playing a bunch of tribal creatures. You need to play a lot of Goblins in your deck to make Goblin Ringleader effective, but once you start drawing them by the fistfuls it doesn't matter if they are a bit underpowered. If he has support he will be very playable in Standard, and now Modern Goblins has a chance to succeed as something more than a cheese-you-out deck. I'm excited! Ah yes, just what we always wanted... more planeswalkers! Three Chandras in one set! MORE PLANESWALKERS! Kidding aside, the uncommon, rare, mythic progression of Chandra planeswalkers is a pretty cool design, as is the idea of focusing on a single planeswalker's story across one set. However, while Chandra, Awakened Inferno is the big splashy mythic rare of the cycle, Chandra, Acolyte of Flame is by far the best Chandra in the set, as well as probably the best planeswalker in the set. While her first ability is mostly just a +1 that doesn't do anything, that's honestly fine coming out of a three-mana planeswalker. Five loyalty is a great starting point, and if you get to add some loyalty counters to other planeswalkers it's a nice bonus. Her second ability isn't much, but the ability to pressure planeswalkers without losing a card is paramount in Standard right now. Answering Teferi, Time Raveler and Narset, Parter of Veils is perhaps one of the biggest concerns in the whole format, and Chandra does a good job at poking them for essentially free. However, Chandra's true draw is her -2 ability. Jace, Vryn's Prodigy was extremely underrated at first, because it felt like you only got one shot at the Snapcaster Mage effect and then it didn't do anything for a while. It turns out getting instant value while also having a must answer permanent in play for a fairly low cost is very good. Chandra also isn't limited to only Red spells, so you can flash back Thought Erasure , Cast Down , or whatever else strikes your fancy. Chandra is the real deal. Take that Teferi! Sideboard color-hosers have always had a weird history in Magic . You don't want your postboard games to feel like a battle of who can draw their sideboard card first, so cards like Boil , Choke , and Chill are just far too much. However, having access to non-maindeckable effects that are very good at keeping certain strategies in check is a great way to maintain balance in a Standard format. If Teferi and friends are running rampant, having something like Fry around to keep the balance is nice. That's all really; just a nice and clean cycle of sideboard cards is a great thing to have access to. Another blast from the past! I was one of the first players to find success playing Planar Cleansing in my Control deck over Detention Sphere , an innovation that would go on to win a subsequent Pro Tour. U/W Control | Theros Standard | 3rd Place | SCG Tour Open Providence Creatures (1) 1 Aetherling Planeswalkers (4) 2 Elspeth, Sun's Champion 2 Jace, Architect of Thought Instants (17) 1 Deicide 2 Last Breath 2 Syncopate 4 Azorius Charm 4 Dissolve 4 Sphinx's Revelation Sorceries (11) 3 Planar Cleansing 4 Divination 4 Supreme Verdict Lands (27) 6 Island 6 Plains 3 Azorius Guildgate 4 Hallowed Fountain 4 Mutavault 4 Temple of Enlightenment Sideboard (15) 1 Deicide 2 Celestial Flare 2 Archangel of Thune 2 Renounce the Guilds 1 Jace, Memory Adept 2 Dispel 2 Negate 1 Reprisal 1 Gainsay 1 Last Breath Buy This Deck Export text format The biggest draw to Planar Cleansing was its ability to clean up a mixed threat board comprised of both creatures and a variety of planeswalkers. Sound familiar? War of the Spark Standard is defined by planeswalkers and creatures. With Teferi, Time Raveler making counterspells almost unplayable and Narset, Parter of Veils making it hard to draw cards without using planeswalkers, pretty much everything that is happening in Standard is happening on the battlefield. This leads to cluttered boards and complicated boardstates that are hard to gain an edge on. One of the reasons why Command the Dreadhorde is so good is that it goes so far over the top on the board, or can rebuild a board that was taken apart. Planar Cleansing changes all of that, with the ability to clean up everything, no questions asked. With so few decks playing countermagic at the moment, Planar Cleansing may just be the answer the format needs. This card feels like an apology. Wizards of the Coast: "When we debuted Dinosaurs as a creature type in Ixalan we knew everyone was going to be very excited and we were too! However, we missed the mark on power level and were just as sad as you all were that dinosaur tribal wasn't playable. As an apology for that transgression we decided to print this very obvious Dinosaur enabler in Core Set 2020 to try and make things right for the few months that Ixalan is still legal. Enjoy! Dinosaurs have struggled to gain much traction in Standard because the early plays just aren't that good. Cards like Drover of the Mighty are mostly just embarrassing, and enrage is a mechanic that is irrelevant if you're not getting into heavy creature combat or playing against Red. Marauding Raptor solves both of these problems. Marauding Raptor is a mana creature that isn't embarrassing, helping to power out cards like Ripjaw Raptor and Regisaur Alpha ahead of schedule while not limiting you to just playing Dinosaurs. It also does so as a respectable and reasonably durable 2/3, which will have value later in the game and often attack for four. And that triggered ability! Sure, it's a drawback for playing things with less than three toughness, but a huge boon to any card with enrage. Turn three Ripjaw Raptor and draw a card? That sounds awesome! Marauding Raptor may also be the card that gets Ranging Raptors to see play. While it may not have much of a future post-Ixalan rotation, Marauding Raptor is certainly going to be impressive while it gets to play with its Dinosaur friends. Wait, was this card supposed to be in Modern Horizons ? Elvish Reclaimer feels great. Crop Rotation is a widely played effect in the formats it is legal in, and Elvish Reclaimer is a spellshaper for Crop Rotation that also is a well sized creature in its own right. Being able to get any land is a huge game, and while Elvish Reclaimer may not make a huge impact in Standard it is excellent in older formats. With fetchlands in the mix it is very easy to make Elvish Reclaimer into a 3/4, turning it into a sort of Wild Nacatl / Knight of the Reliquary split card. That's a lot of power for only one mana! The hardest part about playing Knight of the Reliquary is hoping you get to untap with it, and untapping with Elvish Reclaimer is much more doable. Elvish Reclaimer is great! *Jaw hits the floor* Okay, Spectral Sailor may not be the best card in Core Set 2020 , but as someone who has played Azure Mage , Fathom Feeder , and Mystic Archeologist in a number of Standard control deck sideboards over the years to success, Spectral Sailor just floors me. Not only is a 1 mana 1/1 flying flash creature certainly above rate when compared to a two-mana 2/1 ground creature, having your card draw engine come down that early before any chance of it being countered is huge. We don't currently live in a world where counterspell-based control decks are a thing thanks to Teferi, Time Raveler , but if we did Spectral Sailor would be an amazing tool out of the sideboard. Beyond my wildest control sideboard dreams, we have a very solid 1-drop for aggressive or tribal decks as well. Spectral Sailor wears a Curious Obsession just as well as Pteramander or Mistcloak Herald ever did, while also playing perfectly in the mid to late game with counterspells by forcing your opponent into action. Spectral Sailor also has two relevant creature types going for it as well. Spirits is a deck in Modern, but don't forget that Supreme Phantom is still legal in Standard! Ixalan's pirates still exist as well, always falling short of playability by just not having enough good cards. Don't forget that Lookout's Dispersal is actually a very good Magic card and Siren Stormtamer is a pirate too. I'm in love with Spectral Sailor . New Stuff Fatigue While it's tough trying to parse new cards when we've barely figured out the ones that just came out a few weeks ago, it is still also pretty exciting to have so much to think about. So far Core Set 2020 looks like a very interesting mix of old and new, with the possibility of effecting multiple formats at once while also propping up strategies in Standard that have fallen just short. I love the idea of unloved Standard cards finally getting some time in the spotlight, so that's a hit for me. And Goblin Ringleader is back!!!
One of the complaints with Standard formats late in their cycle is that things can get stale. While frankly this Standard format has been one of the most dynamic in a long time and we are far from solving it, the metagame begins to coalesce into a handful of top decks and strategies and it feels like there isn't room to innovate. Screw that! Arcades' brother Nicol Bolas has been getting the entire spotlight, while mostly failing at making a mark as Grixis decks continue to flounder, but there are in fact other Elder Dragon Legends! Arcades has the look of a super casual card, but his excellent stats combined with a super high payoff for playing a lot of defenders makes him worth a second look. He also has some help from the Azorius Senate, as High Alert helps to fill out the strategy with some much needed redundancy. Throw in some of the best cards in Standard in Llanowar Elves and Teferi, Time Raveler , and we start to see the beginnings of a very fun but competitive deck: Time Stamps: Match 1 - 00:09:41 Match 2 - 00:20:51 Match 3 - 00:54:03 Match 4 - 01:09:43 Match 5 - 01:21:35 Match 6 - 01:53:19 Arcades' Alert | War Standard | Jim Davis Creatures (21) 2 Portcullis Vine 3 Saruli Caretaker 4 Arboreal Grazer 4 Arcades, the Strategist 4 Llanowar Elves 4 Wall of Runes Planeswalkers (8) 1 Teferi, Hero of Dominaria 3 Teyo, the Shieldmage 4 Teferi, Time Raveler Enchantments (6) 2 Conclave Tribunal 4 High Alert Lands (25) 4 Forest 2 Glacial Fortress 3 Hallowed Fountain 4 Breeding Pool 4 Hinterland Harbor 4 Sunpetal Grove 4 Temple Garden Sideboard (15) 1 The Wanderer 3 Baffling End 3 Slaughter the Strong 2 Dovin's Veto 2 Disdainful Stroke 2 Trostani Discordant 2 Knight of Autumn Buy This Deck Export text format Export Arena format One of the most important things when brewing a fun deck for Standard is making sure you still play powerful cards, and we've done a good job of that while sticking to the theme. Unfortunately our opponents had other plans for us. This was certainly a rough set of matches, playing against two decks that we don't matchup well against over and over again. We want our walls to be doing double duty both blocking and activating our synergies, and neither Esper Control nor Bant Ramp does a lot of attacking in the early game. Still, I don't like to cherry pick my videos or content as there's as much or more to be learned from bad matchups than from good ones. Regardless of the outcome of this set of matches, I've played the deck to success on stream and it really is a surprisingly powerful and fun deck. If you're looking for an off the radar brew with a lot of fun and power built in, Arcades is waiting for you!
Teferi, Time Raveler and Narset, Parter of Veils are completely messed up Magic cards. While the duo has been making waves in Standard, the real damage they've been doing is in the older formats where their static abilities stack up much more favorably and they are much harder to remove. When you think about it, it's not weird at all that a planeswalker that removes your opponent's ability to interact while also dealing with a wide variety of permanents or a full on Dig Through Time that turns off many of your opponent's best cards would be good. While both planeswalkers are good in fair or control shells, where they really shine is in combo decks. Teferi means you can combo without your opponent getting a chance to interact, while also having an answer to whatever piece of hate they might have, and Narset digs super deep to help you find the pieces that you need while also limiting your opponent's options. With both these new pieces in place I'm happy to announce that... Splinter Twin is back in Modern! ... okay well not exactly , but I'm not going to lie - it's pretty damn close. Jeskai Saheeli | Modern | Jim Davis | 7th Place SCGCON Modern Champs Creatures (7) 3 Snapcaster Mage 4 Felidar Guardian Planeswalkers (10) 2 Narset, Parter of Veils 4 Saheeli Rai 4 Teferi, Time Raveler Instants (14) 1 Lightning Helix 2 Spell Pierce 3 Remand 4 Lightning Bolt 4 Path to Exile Sorceries (4) 4 Serum Visions Enchantments (3) 3 Spreading Seas Lands (22) 1 Mountain 1 Plains 2 Island 1 Celestial Colonnade 1 Glacial Fortress 1 Sacred Foundry 1 Sulfur Falls 2 Arid Mesa 2 Hallowed Fountain 2 Steam Vents 4 Flooded Strand 4 Scalding Tarn Sideboard (15) 1 Narset, Parter of Veils 1 Crumble to Dust 2 Rest in Peace 1 Supreme Verdict 2 Stony Silence 2 Geist of Saint Traft 2 Dispel 1 Celestial Purge 1 Vendilion Clique 1 Engineered Explosives 1 Wrath of God Buy This Deck Export text format (For the unfamiliar, the combo is fairly simple. Saheeli Rai can make a copy of Felidar Guardian , which enters the battlefield and can flicker a Saheeli Rai thereby resetting her. She can then be activated again to make a copy of Felidar Guardian , which will then flicker Saheeli again. All the copies have haste, so you can rinse and repeat several million times and then attack your opponent with several million cats.) The Saheeli Rai + Felidar Guardian combo has been floating around in Modern since it was banned in Standard, but never really was much more than a fringe deck because the supporting cast was so lackluster. Felidar Guardian is much less nimble card than Deceiver Exarch , while also requiring decent cards to blink for value so it can do more than just be a combo piece. Wall of Omens sucks, but it was a necessity because there wasn't anything better. Good lord believe me when I tell you that Teferi and Narset are worlds better than anything the deck has ever had. Teferi is already a good card, but it plays so well in the deck and with the combo that it's frightening. You can use it early to buy tempo, bounce annoying things like Aether Vial , Pyromancer's Ascension , of Amulet of Vigor to buy time, and then blink it and do it all over again with Felidar Guardian . Once Teferi is in play the race is on for your opponent to kill it before you can combo, otherwise they can't react. This creates yet another sub game for your opponent to have to deal with, making their life even more difficult as they try to progress their own game plan while also trying to ensure they can interact with you. In a lot of ways Narset is the card that is directly replacing Wall of Omens , providing you with a source of card advantage that plays very nice with Felidar Guardian . If you thought one Dig Through Time was good, you're gonna love doing it all over again, as the curve of Narset into Feldiar Guardian is just a cascade of card advantage and selection. The fact that Narset is one of the best cards in the format against Izzet Phoenix as well as many of the other best cards in the format is almost gravy, and if you don't love gravy there's something wrong with you. The deck is rounded out with a full roster of Jeskai Control staples, ranging from great removal in Lightning Bolt and Path to Exile , a smattering of countermagic to bridge the gap and defend your combo in Remand and Spell Pierce , and Snapcaster Mage and Serum Visions to bring it all together. All of these cards are proven pieces of interaction in the Modern metagame, doing a great job of keeping you alive while you set up your card advantage engines and eventual combo. Spell Pierce deserves a special mention because of how well it slots into the deck. This is not a pure control deck, so we are very interested in making tempo positive plays and that's exactly what Spell Pierce helps to set up. Being able to play a planeswalker on four mana and defend either it or yourself is great, as well as defending your combo pieces on your combo turn. Spell Pierce is also amazing against all sorts of nonsense that can be tough to beat, from Cathartic Reunion to Chalice of the Void to Karn Liberated , which is a great thing to have in such a wild and wide open format as Modern. No Seriously, It's Splinter Twin If you've ever played the old Splinter Twin decks before it was banned, you'll be right in your element playing Jeskai Saheeli. The deck plays out in remarkably similar fashion, as you have a great interactive core to react to your opponent's plays as well as the fear of god from your opponent that you will just combo kill them. It lacks the "end of turn Deceiver Exarch , untapped kill you" surprise potential, but can still kill out of nowhere with six mana and no board (just use Felidar Guardian to flicker and untap a land and then cast Saheeli) and both combo pieces are fairly durable if they are in play making the combo not difficult to set up. Felidar Guardian isn't as nimble as Deceiver Exarch , but is much more powerful overall and can help accrue huge advantage all by itself by blinking Planeswalkers, Spreading Seas , or even Snapcaster Mage . Saheeli Rai is certainly the Splinter Twin half of the combo in that she is less universally useful, but scrying is nice and you'll find yourself copying Snapcaster Mage often enough to be happy. Just like Splinter Twin you're not really in any huge rush to combo, but sometimes you will just run Shaleei on three and Felidar Guardian on four and run some people over who aren't interested in interacting. Control decks often suffer in Modern because they lack that kind of closing power, but Jeskai Saheeli has no problem slamming the door when it needs to. It's hard to understate how important having that kind of power in your Modern deck is, as the format is very hostile to decks that durdle too much. Putting It In Practice Both Ben Friedman and I played slightly different versions of Jeskai Saheeli at SCGCON, but in discussing our lists together both before and after the tournament we are convinced the deck is excellent. The Invitational didn't go as planned, mostly due to average performances in Standard, but both Ben and I made Top 8 of the Sunday Modern Summer Championship with the deck. I lost a very close match to an Azorius Spirits deck in Top 8, while Ben went on to split in the top four. Of course with Modern Horizons about to shake Modern up even more we are in major state of flux right now, but Jeskai Saheeli is a great place to start. The deck is powerful, interactive, and both very fun and challenging to play and play against. It is also very adaptable, with a wide range of great maindeck and sideboard options. If you've been waiting for Splinter Twin to be unbanned, this is about as close as you're going to get!
Today we're going to do something a little different. Normally I'm bringing you either decks that I've brewed and worked on stream or at an event, or decks that have been floating around the top tables of either tournament or online play. However, today we're going to take a look at what the beginnings of a brew looks like. Every great deck starts as nothing more than an idea, and by starting from that point you will get to see the process that goes into figuring out what works and doesn't work. Today's idea is: What if we used discard spells in our Saheeli Rai / Felidar Guardian combo deck to both protect our combo as well as disrupt our opponent? Most Saheeli Rai combo decks are either straight Jeskai or touch on green for mana creatures and creature tutoring, but what if we went in the other direction and added discard instead? Discard spells could help act as a preemptive answer to things that would disrupt their combo, let us know when the coast is clear, and buy us time to set up. Discard spells also play great with Teferi, Time Raveler , as even when our opponent is empty handed we can use them on their draw step. The cost of course, is that we need to play four colors which can be difficult Time Stamps : Match 1 - 00:10:22 Match 2 - 00:25:34 Match 3 - 00:52:11 Match 4 - 01:02:44 Match 5 - 01:26:45 Four-Color Saheeli Combo | Modern | Jim Davis Creatures (7) 3 Wall of Omens 4 Felidar Guardian Planeswalkers (11) 3 Narset, Parter of Veils 4 Saheeli Rai 4 Teferi, Time Raveler Instants (7) 3 Path to Exile 4 Fatal Push Sorceries (10) 3 Inquisition of Kozilek 3 Thoughtseize 4 Serum Visions Enchantments (3) 3 Spreading Seas Lands (22) 1 Blood Crypt 1 Godless Shrine 1 Hallowed Fountain 1 Steam Vents 2 Marsh Flats 2 Watery Grave 3 Interplanar Beacon 4 Flooded Strand 4 Polluted Delta 1 Snow-Covered Island 1 Snow-Covered Plains 1 Snow-Covered Swamp Sideboard (15) 1 Kaya, Orzhov Usurper 3 Rest in Peace 2 Stony Silence 3 Geist of Saint Traft 1 Engineered Explosives 1 Dispel 2 Collective Brutality 1 Supreme Verdict 1 Wrath of God Buy This Deck Export text format While the idea itself sorta worked - discard spells into planeswalkers was fairly effective - the costs associated with playing four colors were fairly high. We were routinely starting games at about 11 or 12 life, as we would need to fetch and shock a few times while also taking damage from Thoughtseize . This made life difficult against more aggressive decks and made setting up more difficult. Interplanar Beacon was cute but may have caused more problems than it solved. Lacking Lightning Bolt and Snapcaster Mage also made dealing with enemy planeswalkers more difficult and we were very one dimensional in our game plan. However, the most important thing from any time you take an idea into war is to learn everything you can from it. Most ideas die brutal deaths on the battlefield, but every battle has a chance to be a victory when you learn from it. The things you learn from each attempt help inform your view on the format and future attempts. What we did learn is that both Teferi, Time Raveler and Narset, Parter of Veils were insanely powerful in the deck. They inject new life into an archetype that had toiled on the fringes of the format for a while, giving it tools it never had. Tune in on Friday to see what this idea eventually led to!
SCGCON is here! One of the most exciting events on the Magic calendar, the Invitational at SCGCON, not only caps off the first season of the SCG Tour, but also puts both Standard and Modern under the spotlight and scrutiny of a $100,000 total prize purse. Stakes are high, putting enormous amount of pressure on players to be right on top of the trends in both formats. Further complicating things is that War of the Spark has completely upended both formats, creating one of the most dynamic week-to-week Standard formats in recent memory, while also producing waves rarely seen by a Standard legal set in Modern. There's a lot of information to take in and a lot of factors at play, making putting it all together very challenging. These trends make the rules for each format week in and week out, and whether you want to follow the trends or buck them, you have to know what they are. Here's what's currently happening in both formats: Standard: You Need To Have A Great Early Game Or A Great Late Game While planeswalkers define the midgame of the current Standard format, the reality is that almost all successful Standard decks either seek to have a great early game or some sort of way over the top endgame. While the Four Color Dreadhorde deck I've been playing a lot recently certainly is the strategy taken to its fullest extent, other decks have been getting in on the fun as well. A more fair version of Sultai Dreadhorde has been making the rounds as well, recently played by friends of mine, Dan Jessup to a MCQ finals finish and Jarvis Yu to a Top 16 finish at Grand Prix Kansas City. Sultai Dreadhorde | War Standard | Jarvis Yu, 10th Place Grand Prix Kansas City Creatures (22) 2 Hostage Taker 4 Hydroid Krasis 4 Jadelight Ranger 4 Llanowar Elves 4 Merfolk Branchwalker 4 Wildgrowth Walker Planeswalkers (8) 2 Vraska, Golgari Queen 3 Nissa, Who Shakes the World 3 Tamiyo, Collector of Tales Instants (3) 3 Assassin's Trophy Sorceries (3) 3 Command the Dreadhorde Lands (24) 4 Forest 1 Drowned Catacomb 3 Hinterland Harbor 4 Breeding Pool 4 Overgrown Tomb 4 Watery Grave 4 Woodland Cemetery Sideboard (15) 2 The Elderspell 2 Cast Down 3 Thrashing Brontodon 2 Ripjaw Raptor 2 Disdainful Stroke 1 Negate 3 Duress Buy This Deck Export text format Export Arena format Command the Dreadhorde is also popping up as a singleton in other midrange decks that can cast it like Esper Midrange, further cementing it as one of the most powerful endgames in the format. However, even going over the top of that is the surge of mostly Bant ramp decks based around Mass Manipulation . Bant Ramp | War Standard |Ulrich, Fandom Legends Creatures (20) 2 Jadelight Ranger 2 Paradise Druid 2 Shalai, Voice of Plenty 2 Tolsimir, Friend to Wolves 4 Hydroid Krasis 4 Incubation Druid 4 Llanowar Elves Planeswalkers (4) 4 Nissa, Who Shakes the World Instants (4) 4 Growth Spiral Sorceries (6) 3 Entrancing Melody 3 Mass Manipulation Lands (26) 2 Island 5 Forest 3 Glacial Fortress 4 Breeding Pool 4 Hallowed Fountain 4 Hinterland Harbor 4 Temple Garden Sideboard (15) 3 Deputy of Detention 2 Frilled Mystic 1 LyraDawnbringer 1 Mass Manipulation 2 Negate 1 Pelakka Wurm 1 The Immortal Sun 4 Thorn Lieutenant Buy This Deck Export text format Export Arena format While enormously expensive, when fueled by many ramp creatures and Nissa, Who Shakes The World , large Mass Manipulation s can be cast as early as turn four. Hydroid Krasis gives the deck the engine to refuel giving the deck a very robust endgame. The deck is very reliant on its mana creatures but the payoffs are huge. Standard endgames are way over the top at the moment and you must either have something to match them, answer them, or get under them. Mono-Red Aggro is of course the poster child for getting under these big effects, looking to end the game long before anyone should be thinking about casting Mass Manipulation while also having many effective answers to mana creatures. Amusingly enough, with Experimental Frenzy Mono-Red also threatens to have its own powerful endgame, helping to explain why it's one of the best and most consistent decks in the format. White Weenie had fallen by the wayside, but took the MCQ I played last weekend by storm and plots out as my pick for breakout deck at SCGCON. It checks all the boxes as far as "going fast" while being very underprepared for. If all the big go over the top decks are going to skimp on removal, White is poised to run them right over and out of town. Tocatli Honor Guard is also a huge problem for any Command the Dreadhorde deck relying on the Explore package. It's a tough tightrope to balance, with decks having such great late games and early games with a ton of play in between, but it's a huge part of why this format has been so dynamic. Standard: Nissa Is The Current Queen Of Standard The more the Standard format adapts, the more stock that Nissa, Who Shakes The World gains. It's no surprise that both the Sultai Dreadhorde deck and the Bant Ramp deck are centered around Nissa, Who Shakes The World , who is quickly becoming one of the best cards in the format. When it comes to going over the top Nissa and her static ability is one of the best cards you can have, and her ability to pressure planeswalkers and defend makes her incredibly well rounded. Oh and with Llanowar Elves leading the charge you cast her on turn three. The format has done a good job adapting to Teferi, Time Raveler , but now needs to also adapt to beat Nissa. The tools are certainly there though. Tomik, Distinguished Advokist isn't just for Legacy! Tomik is already a well costed creature with evasion, but she also shuts down Nissa's ability to effect the board which goes a long way toward taking Nissa out of the picture. Any aggressive deck playing Tomik should be able to make the turn a player plays Nissa without adding a blocker to the board very punishing. Sweepers are some amount of good against Nissa! Neither card is seeing any maindeck play at the moment, but both are astoundingly punishing against decks built around Nissa and mana creatures. The downside of course is that they don't effect planeswalkers, but they're also both good against Mono-Red Aggro, White Weenie, and Gruul, which is a large portion of the format. If someone can find a good Kaya's Wrath deck for this weekend they are poised to do very well. Modern: War Of The Spark Planeswalkers Are Changing Everything There's no doubt that Planeswalkers are the name of the game in Standard, but the real surprise is how much of an impact they are having on Modern as well. Karn, The Great Creator 's impact on Modern has been fairly well documented at this point, giving Tron a powerful and versatile new tool as well as boosting up Eldrazi Tron and various other prison and big mana strategies. It would be remiss of me to not mention him, Mycosynth Lattice , and friends, but that's not the real surprise. These two again? That's right,Teferi and Narset are not just for Standard. Both cards are currently changing the landscape of Modern, throwing huge wrenches into the plans of many of the established decks. Teferi drastically hurts the plans of any reactive deck in the format, while indirectly messing with a whole bunch of cards and abilities; Finale of Promise , Chandra, Torch of Defiance , Bloodbraid Elf , Rift Bolt , Search for Tomorrow , and so on. Narset is just as brutal, attaching a static ability that turns off everything from Serum Visions to Faithless Looting to Chromatic Star on top of a Dig Through Time spread over two turns. That's a lot of value for three mana! Both Teferi and Narset have the ability to completely change how we think of control and combo decks in Modern, while also spawning the possibility of new archetypes. Teferi in particular is very good at defending combos from interaction and hate cards, and I expect both to be major players both at SCGCON and going forward. Put these cards in your Modern decks and make sure you can beat them! Modern: Be Ready For A Fair Fight With Teferi and Narset pushing toward interaction and Humans, Izzet Phoenix, and Control all making bids for the top deck in Modern, the pendulum has certainly swung pretty hard towards the "fair" side of things. Just being fast or super linear is a risky thing at the moment, as if you lack the tools to interact and play a longer game you may find yourself in trouble. Having a feel for how fair or unfair a format is goes a long way toward both selecting your deck for an event or for tuning your chosen deck and sideboard for what you expect. Make sure your deck can deal with these new, interactive elements and don't be shy about including a plan B of some kind. Eyes On The Prize SCGCON is always an exciting event, but even more so as we get to see what the conclusions drawn by the best and brightest minds on the SCG Tour are in a high stakes environment. I of course will be playing in the event, but whether you're there or not you should be paying close attention to the event and coverage. And make sure to watch both formats! Split format events are notorious for spreading false information, as a player who make have broken the format in one format may do poorly in the other and fall short of Top 8. Keep an eye on the decks that are doing well in their respective formats and at the new ideas being presented. Not every idea will work at first, but it may be a pathway to something great later on. Hopefully I'm the one you watch hoist the trophy!
While it is often a very active format, with flavor of the week decks shifting in and out and a rotating cast of main characters, true new change doesn't happen to Modern that often. Modern Horizons looks to upset that paradigm, but typical sets don't tend to change things too much. So it comes as a surprise that the biggest effect War of the Spark , a set focused around an army of new and powerful planeswalkers, would have is adding a very big pig to a somewhat forgotten archetype, breathing new life into a proven glass cannon. Goryo's Vengeance decks have long been considered too fragile for Modern, offering high power that is too inconsistent and disruptable, especially in a format where people aren't afraid to maindeck Surgical Extraction . However, Ilharg, the Raze-Boar , alongside oft forgotten M15 common Generator Servant , gives the deck more of a plan B that doesn't rely on the graveyard at all. This is a huge boon for the deck, as no longer is the plan against graveyard hate a Through the Breach and a prayer. Time Stamps: Match 1 - 00:04:33 Match 2 - 00:22:40 Match 3 - 00:58:36 Match 4 - 01:17:34 Match 5 - 01:33:56 Boaryo's Vengance | Modern | Dominick Harvey ,15th Place SCG Louisville Creatures (19) 3 Generator Servant 4 Simian Spirit Guide 4 Emrakul, the Aeons Torn 4 Griselbrand 4 Ilharg, the Raze-Boar Instants (8) 4 Goryo's Vengeance 4 Through the Breach Sorceries (10) 3 Cathartic Reunion 3 Collective Brutality 4 Faithless Looting Artifacts (4) 4 Pentad Prism Lands (19) 2 Mountain 3 Swamp 1 Scalding Tarn 2 Blood Crypt 2 Polluted Delta 4 Blackcleave Cliffs 4 Bloodstained Mire 1 Gemstone Caverns Sideboard (15) 3 Abrade 2 Anger of the Gods 1 Terastodon 3 Thoughtseize 2 Lightning Axe 3 Chalice of the Void 1 Blood Moon Buy This Deck Export text format Dominik Harvey's new take on Goryo's Vengeance rewarded him with a Top 16 finish at SCG Louisville, War of the Spark 's debut in Modern, and raises renewed interest in the archetype. While Emrakul, the Aeons Torn won't trigger annihilator off the Raze Boar's trigger, it is a clean 21 damage that can happen on turn two giving the deck a full on early kill that it was lacking. There were also a number of times that we just cast our 6/6 and we're able to play a reasonable game of Magic as well. The deck is still somewhat vulnerable to disruption and finicky at times, but we are looking at an exciting evolution of a forgotten archetype. If you're a fan of Sneak and Show in Legacy or just a fan of degenerate Griselbrand shenanigans in general, the big pig is certainly worth a look.
The best combo decks aren't actually combo decks. They're reasonable, perhaps slightly underpowered, fair decks that are fully capable of winning a normal game of Magic , but also have the ability to execute a powerful combo when needed either to provide for fast and unexpected wins or to bring themselves back from the brink when they are behind. In many ways the mere threat of their combo finish is more dangerous than the combo itself, forcing their opponents to play scared and make bad trades. It can also lead opponents to oversideboard for the combo element, ripe to fall prey to the fair plan. Four-Color Rally | 2016 Standard | Reid Duke, Grand Prix Oakland 2016 Creatures (28) 1 Fleshbag Marauder 1 Merciless Executioner 2 Grim Haruspex 4 Catacomb Sifter 4 Elvish Visionary 4 Jace, Vryn's Prodigy 4 Nantuko Husk 4 Sidisi's Faithful 4 Zulaport Cutthroat Instants (8) 4 Collected Company 4 Rally the Ancestors Lands (24) 1 Forest 1 Island 1 Plains 1 Swamp 1 Prairie Stream 2 Canopy Vista 2 Sunken Hollow 3 Evolving Wilds 4 Flooded Strand 4 Polluted Delta 4 Windswept Heath Sideboard (15) 4 Murderous Cut 2 Duress 2 Dispel 4 Arashin Cleric 3 Anafenza, the Foremost Buy This Deck Export text format About three years ago, the best deck in Standard was a very difficult to pilot deck based around good value creatures, the format's best midrange engine, and a combo finish that revolved around bringing stuff back from the graveyard. Sound familiar? Despite differences in composition and how it actually wins, the Four-Color Dreadhorde deck that has been making waves in Standard lately is eerily similar to the Four-Color Rally decks of old. It plays some of the best fair cards in the format, while simultaneously looking to execute a big combo finish that will end the game. It attacks from many angles and the flexibility it has it what makes it so difficult to play against. Four-Color Dreadhorde | War Standard | Jim Davis Creatures (17) 1 Massacre Girl 1 Trostani Discordant 3 Paradise Druid 4 Jadelight Ranger 4 Merfolk Branchwalker 4 Wildgrowth Walker Planeswalkers (13) 1 Teferi, Hero of Dominaria 2 Sorin, Vengeful Bloodlord 2 Vraska, Golgari Queen 4 Tamiyo, Collector of Tales 4 Teferi, Time Raveler Sorceries (4) 4 Command the Dreadhorde Lands (26) 1 Forest 1 Godless Shrine 2 Breeding Pool 2 Isolated Chapel 2 Watery Grave 3 Hinterland Harbor 3 Temple Garden 4 Interplanar Beacon 4 Overgrown Tomb 4 Woodland Cemetery Sideboard (15) 1 Swamp 2 Cast Down 4 Duress 2 Kraul Harpooner 1 Massacre Girl 1 Narset, Parter of Veils 1 The Elderspell 2 Thrashing Brontodon 1 Unmoored Ego Buy This Deck Export text format Export Arena format Let's break the deck down into its component parts: The Creatures Just like Four-Color Rally used the tried and proven midrange core of its time ( Collected Company , Reflector Mage , and Jace, Vyrn's Prodigy ), we are using the tried and proven core that has formed the backbone of many of this Standard's midrange deck in the "explore package." It's no secret that Wildgrowth Walker , Jadelight Ranger , and Merfolk Branchwalker are quite the trio. Not only do the explore creatures help you to make your land drops, dump a few extra cards into the graveyard, and allow you to both attack and defend early, but they fall right into the deck's main plan of simply trading resources in the early and mid game. Against aggressive decks they help keep you alive, and against slower decks they can come down quickly and allow you to start pressuring and getting ahead so you can get your planeswalkers and eventual Command the Dreadhorde engine going while your opponent is off balance. Getting ahead is important because of part two: The Planeswalkers While your explore creatures won't often get the job done all by themselves, what they excel at is setting the stage for phase two: your planeswalkers. Planeswalkers are a card type that is at its absolute best when you are ahead, which ideally is exactly where you will be after an early game full of explore creatures. Each planeswalker has the ability to effect the board the turn it comes into play, hopefully allowing you to continue to press your advantage. Teferi, Time Raveler is one of the best cards in Standard and worth the hassle of the White splash. Not only is Teferi an amazing tempo card that helps you to both not die and get ahead, Teferi also provides you with incidental insurance against counterspells. Having Command the Dreadhorde countered sucks, and Teferi makes sure that doesn't happen at an extremely low opportunity cost. Teferi is also awesome bring back with Command the Dreadhorde to effect the board right away. Vraska, Golgari Queen and Sorin, Vengeful Bloodlord are both solid midrange planeswalkers that do a lot of grindy work necessary to keep up in the midgame. A lot of times Vraska will come down, kill something, and then get attacked, but a Lightning Helix that can come back from the graveyard is totally fine in this deck. She also handles small planeswalkers well too. Sorin plays amazingly well with the explore package, giving you extra copies of Wildgrowth Walker or your explorers, while also gaining you a lot of life for big Command the Dreadhorde s for when it's time to go off. Speaking of going off... The Combo Now this is not a combo deck in the sense that it kills your opponent immediately when it goes off, but most of the time any sufficiently large Command the Dreadhorde will create an impenetrable board position that is not only almost impossible to lose from but can be recreated at a moment's notice. The true core of the combo lies in your explore package, as Wildgrowth Walker is the card that not only gives you the life to play with when you first cast Command the Dreadhorde , but also all the life you spent on it back and more as you return Wildgrowth Walker s and explore creatures along with whatever else you are getting. Tamiyo, Collector of Tales also ends up in this section because of how well she plays with Command the Dreadhorde . Unlike the other planeswalkers she doesn't affect the board when she comes into play, but she does help both fill your graveyard up and find Command the Dreadhorde , or let you recur it and cast it again letting you play small, value Commands in the midgame for only a small amount. The Extras The deck also has a few flex spots which can be shaped by what the metagame is currently looking like. Massacre Girl has bounced around from the sideboard to the maindeck, as it's only super effective against creature heavy decks like White Weenie or decks that are heavily invested in mana creatures and Nissa, Who Shakes The World . In most other matchups you are heavily invested in building a board and Massacre Girl can make that hard to do. However with Nissa, Who Shakes The World very popular right now Massacre Girl is back in the maindeck. Just having access to a single copy in Game 1s is very valuable as the deck can usually find it. Trostani Discordant is a very effective flex card at the moment, as not only is she a good stopgap against Mono-Red Aggro but she also helps to handle Thief of Sanity , Hostage Taker , Entrancing Melody , Mass Manipulation , and most importantly the mirror. You must be aware that she can form a non-bo with your own Command the Dreadhorde - if you steal your opponent's creatures they will get them back - but by that same token she is a very good surprise in the mirror. You know you have her so make sure you play accordingly. Playing the Deck Make Those Trades! Trading resources is the name of the game with this deck, as it is your goal to keep your opponent busy with all of your early creatures and planeswalkers while you set up for your inevitable endgame. Your explore creatures are wonderful for this, providing mild pressure and great defense, so do whatever you can to get them into combat early and often. The same goes for your planeswalkers. Ideally you will be playing them when you are ahead and getting them to stick, but a lot of the time Teferi being " Repulse + 3 life" or Vraska being " Abrupt Decay +3 life" is exactly what you are looking for. Every time you block a creature or make their creature attack your planeswalker instead of you is valuable time and life you're gaining as you work toward your Command the Dreadhorde endgame. What Is The Endgame Going To Look Like? It's very important to have a clear idea of where you are going. You're going to be playing longer games primarily and things will often start to get a bit bogged down in the midgame as the board gets larger and larger. Make sure you have a clear idea of what the end of the game is going to look like. Are you going to need to cast a huge Command the Dreadhorde to win? Will grinding it out with your creatures and planeswalkers be enough? What sort of top end threats or interaction is your opponent bringing to the table? Answering these questions will help you sculpt your gameplan. The Sideboard Guide Quick notes about sideboarding: Paradise Druid comes out a lot because post-board games tend to slow down and she is vulnerable to things like Goblin Chainwhirler and mass removal Command the Dreadhorde gets shaved against aggressive decks, but if you do cut all or most of them you need to recognize you no longer have ultimate inevitably and play accordingly Tamiyo often gets shaved after board as it can be a bit unwieldy and cards are more likely to hit the graveyard naturally once each player has the proper interaction The five-mana spells often get shaved in and out depending on the matchup; Teferi, Hero of Dominaria is one of the worst cards in the deck and only really there to deal with opposing planeswalkers Mono-Red Aggro In: +4 Duress +2 Cast Down +2 Thrashing Brontodon Out: -3 Command the Dreadhorde -1 Massacre Girl -3 Paradise Druid -1 Tamiyo, Collector of Tales Esper Midrange In: +2 Cast Down Out: -1 Teferi, Hero of Dominaria -1 Trostani Discordant Jeskai Planeswalkers In: + 1 The Elderspell + 1 Narset, Parter of Veils + 2 Thrashing Brontodon + 4 Duress Out: - 1 Massacre Girl - 3 Paradise Druid - 1 Command the Dreadhorde - 1 Trostani Discordant - 1 Tamiyo, Collector of Tales - 1 Teferi, Hero of Dominaria Gruul Aggro In: + 1 Massacre Girl + 2 Cast Down Out: - 1 Trostani Discordant - 1 Tamiyo, Collector of Tales - 1 Teferi, Hero of Dominara Gruul Aggro With Immortal Sun In: + 1 Massacre Girl + 2 Cast Down + 2 Thrashing Brontodon Out: - 1 Trostani Discordant - 2 Tamiyo, Collector of Tales - 1 Command the Dreadhorde - 1 Teferi, Hero of Dominara Izzet Phoenix In: + 2 Cast Down + 2 Kraul Harpooner + 1 Narset, Parter of Veils Out: - 1 Tronstani Discordant - 1 Massacre Girl - 1 Command the Dreadhorde - 2 Tamiyo, Collector of Tales White Weenie In: + 1 Massacre Girl + 2 Cast Down + 2 Thrashing Brontodon Out: - 2 Command the Dreadhorde - 1 Tronstani Discordant - 1 Teferi, Hero of Dominaria - 1 Tamiyo, Collector of Tales Golgari Land Destruction In: + 1 Swamp + 2 Cast Down Out: - 1 Teferi, Hero of Dominaria - 1 Tronstani Discordant - 1 Tamiyo, Collector of Tales Four Color Dreadhorde In: + 1 Unmoored Ego + 4 Duress Out: - 1 Massacre Girl - 1 Sorin, Vengeful Bloodlord - 1 Teferi, Hero of Dominara - 2 Vraska, Golgari Queen Remember that sideboarding is an art, not a science. You will need to change and adapt this sideboard guide on the fly based on what your opponent is playing, the cards they are sideboarding, and how they are approaching the matchup. The Dreadhorde Boss Four-Color Dreadhorde is one of the best decks in Standard right now, and it is also one of the most challenging decks I've played in a long time. You not only need to manage a somewhat wild mana base and quirky endgame, but play out many turns with a wide swath of options available to you. You may just find yourself in a situation like this: Yikes! The basic rules of tempo and building your board are important, but most vital of all is having an understanding of how the game is going to fully play out and being able to move yourself toward your goal. Your plays must have a unified purpose, and that purpose is a moving target that varies from matchup to matchup. A four color deck that is challenging but rewarding to play, very powerful, and uses a card previously thought to a bulk rare to amazing effect? Sign me up!
Oh boy this format is moving fast. As I talked about last Friday , it feels like this format has been evolving almost on a daily basis. New decks, new rules of engagement, and even newer decks trying to break those rules. At SCG Syracuse greedy mana bases were the order of the day, with both the Lotus Box Jeskai Planeswalkers deck and the Four-Color Dreadhorde deck I played running zero basic lands. Both decks were the breakout decks of the event and have been heavily played since. As such, people have been trying to ruin their fun, quite literally, with Assassin's Trophy and Field of Ruin . Many of the Japanese MPL players brought a land destruction-themed Goglari Midrange deck to the MPL weekly event last weekend, with the intent of punishing greedy mana bases to the max. It features many normal elements of Golgari Midrange, but with a full package of Assassin's Trophy and Field of Ruin complemented by War of the Spark haymaker Casualties of War . Against any opponent with zero or one basic lands and heavy mana requirements, this deck is poised to make it very hard for them to play Magic , and the fallback plan of playing a solid Golgari Midrange build works as well. Time Stamps : Match 1 - 00:04:08 Match 2 - 00:19:06 Match 3 - 00:46:09 Match 4 - 01:09:12 Match 5 - 01:27:29 Golgari Land Death | War Standard | Jim Davis Creatures (23) 2 Carnage Tyrant 2 Ravenous Chupacabra 3 Paradise Druid 4 Jadelight Ranger 4 Llanowar Elves 4 Merfolk Branchwalker 4 Wildgrowth Walker Planeswalkers (6) 1 Vraska, Golgari Queen 2 Nissa, Who Shakes the World 3 Vivien Reid Instants (4) 4 Assassin's Trophy Sorceries (3) 3 Casualties of War Lands (24) 4 Swamp 8 Forest 4 Field of Ruin 4 Overgrown Tomb 4 Woodland Cemetery Sideboard (15) 4 Duress 2 The Elderspell 1 Ob Nixilis's Cruelty 2 Moment of Craving 2 Cast Down 2 Thrashing Brontodon 1 Crucible of Worlds 1 Massacre Girl Buy This Deck Export text format Export Arena format Of course, the problem with playing a metagame deck is that sometimes you don't run into the metagame you expect. We played against three (!) mono-colored aggro decks which exposed us for the middle of the road Golgari deck that we were, as well as two three color decks that had a couple of basic lands along with their duals. And there's the rub really. If your opponent is playing a lot of basic lands, this deck is going to struggle to do what it wants to do. If your opponent isn't playing basic lands, you're likely to crush. But either way, when you play a metagame deck you are subjecting yourself to the will of the pairing gods to an extent. Players are adapting as well, as by this point any smart Jeskai or Four-Color Dreadhorde player is playing at least one basic land to prevent getting cheesed out. Make no mistake this deck is a tool; if your metagame is infested with greedy mana bases, pick up the hammer and punish them, but if you're looking at well adapted mana bases and mono-colored aggro decks, you're going to reach into the toolbox for something else.
The speed at which this new War of the Spark Standard format is moving is astounding. In a few short weeks we've gone from "Simic Nexus is the end of the world!" to "Esper Control is unstoppable!" to "Mono-Red still great!" to " Arclight Phoenix is back!" to " Mox Amber wins a tournament!" The crazy thing is it feels like we've barely scratched the surface. The influx of powerful planeswalkers and their various (and sometimes frustrating) static abilities has caused an upheaval of everything we thought we knew, drastically changing the landscape of what cards are effective in the format. Previous format staples like Absorb and Chemister's Insight look downright silly with so many copies of Teferi, Time Raveler and Narset, Parter of Veils floating around, and new cards have moved in to take their places in this ever-changing ecosystem. The value of any card is directly tied to how it interacts in the context of a format, and today we are going to look at cards that had fallen by the wayside and are now returning because of how well they line up in the new format, specifically against planeswalkers like Teferi and Narset. 1. Thorn Lieutenant You only have to look at the Top 8 of SCG Syracuse last weekend to get a real clear picture of where we are currently at in Standard - the Top 8 was five Teferi, Time Raveler decks and three Mono-Red Aggro decks. There were certainly other decks at the event, but make no mistake that Teferi and Goblin Chainwhirler are the current litmus test for the format. Each of them presents a test for every threat you may want to play: "How bad is it if this card is bounced by Teferi? / How vulnerable is this card to Goblin Chainwhirler ?" Cards that don't pass these tests must be heavily scrutinized. Do you know what card is very good against both Teferi and Mono-Red? Thorn Lieutenant passes the Teferi-check even on the draw, as if your opponent wants to deploy Teferi and bounce your 2-drop to push way ahead on tempo, you get a 1/1 Elf token that can swing right back and kill Teferi. Many planeswalkers end up going down to one loyalty to kill things, so the 1/1 Elf is just the right size to punish them for it. Thorn Lieutenant also is phenomenal against Mono-Red Aggro, providing a 2-drop that always provides value when killed and matches up perfectly against all but their best creatures. Lastly, Thorn Lieutenant also plays excellently with Nissa, Who Shakes the World , providing a mana sink that is also very relevant on turn two. If you're playing Green and looking for a good 2-drop, Thorn Lieutenant is it. 2. Legion Warboss Legion Warboss is not nearly as good against Mono-Red Aggro as it is against planeswalkers and other slow decks, but it is really good against planeswalkers and non-interactive decks. Legion Warboss passes the Teferi-test with flying colors, either providing an immediate advantage that can finish off the Teferi if it is bounced, or as a follow up to a creature that was bounced by Teferi so you can finish it off. Haste is an exceptional ability against planeswalkers, as what makes planeswalkers powerful is the ability to get them going on a stable board; haste allows you to destabilize the board when your opponent isn't expecting it. Getting to pick off a Teferi, Hero of Dominaria or Ugin, the Ineffable that minused while also adding a significant threat to the board is awesome. What Legion Warboss also excels at is beating up on decks that are just trying to ignore what you are doing. There are a number of big Green Nissa, Who Shakes the World decks floating around looking to go over the top of everything, as well as the Simic deck from last season based around mana acceleration into Mass Manipulation . These decks do not interact well with creatures, allowing Legion Warboss to go wide and wild. Legion Warboss has also replaced Thief of Sanity as the go-to "sideboard juke" creature from control and planeswalker decks, as Thief of Sanity play so poorly against Teferi, Time Raveler that it has started to fall considerably out of favor; if you play Thief of Sanity on turn three and your opponent responds with a Teferi to minus and send it back to your hand, you've just entered a tempo black hole. Even if you're not looking to play Legion Warboss yourself, make sure you're prepared for it! 3. Assassin's Trophy Notice anything about the Lotus Box Jeskai Planeswalkers deck that won SCG Syracuse or the Four-Color Command the Dreadhorde deck I played in that event as well? Zero. Basic. Lands. I've long been an Assassin's Trophy naysayer. Giving your opponent a free land in Standard, where there are tons of five and 6-drops as well as cards like Hydroid Krasis , is very hard to stomach. Assassin's Trophy 's allure comes from how cheap and efficient it is, but giving your opponent a Rampant Growth on the early turns when you could just play basically any other removal spell is not usually where you want to be. Until that Rampant Growth goes away and you're just casting a two-mana, instant speed Vindicate of course. If the biggest decks in the format continue to be Jeskai Planeswalkers, Four-Color Command the Dreadhorde , and Mono-Red Aggro, Assassin's Trophy is awesome. Being able to kill anything with little to no drawback is great and you never have to worry about your removal spell being dead like a card like Cast Down or The Elderspell could be. And it gets even better, because once you know what you're up against you can punish those greedy three color mana bases with a well timed Sinkhole . And even if your opponent has a good amount basic lands? Well, you can just time it appropriately and be happy you have an answer to whatever they are bringing to the table. 4. Field of Ruin If you thought Sinkhole was great, how about one that doesn't even take up a spell slot in your deck? Field of Ruin is an excellent Magic card, but its use in Standard has mostly been limited to keeping fancy lands like Search for Azcanta in check. However the greedier people get with their mana bases, the closer it comes to being a super Strip Mine . Remember, when you activate Field of Ruin you don't actually lose anything because it replaces itself, unlike Strip Mine or Wasteland . There are also corner case benefits like mana fixing and multiple landfall activations for something like Evolution Sage , but make no mistake here - we are looking to Stone Rain some people out of existence. How far you want to take Field of Ruin is up to you, whether you're using it as a disruptive element to supplement some beatdowns, adding it in with things like Assassin's Trophy to really stack up on the effect, or going full lockdown with something like Crucible of Worlds . The end result however is that if people are going to continue to be super greedy with their mana bases, there are definitely tools available to punish them. 5. Nissa, Who Shakes the World As we continue to explore all of the planeswalkers in War of the Spark , we can take a deeper look at some of the more confusing ones. It's not too hard to figure out what to do with Teferi or Narset because their power levels are so high, but a card like Nissa, Who Shakes the World can be confusing. Is Nissa a ramp card? Is Nissa an aggro/midrange card? ...Why not both? Nissa granting your lands both haste and vigilance is superb in a format defined by attacking and defending planeswalkers. Nissa is able to come down and threaten your opponent's planeswalkers right away, present her own planeswalker presence on the board, and also threaten a huge follow up turn as you get to untap with all your mana. That's a lot of value for five mana, especially in a color capable of casting her as early as turn four. Nissa is seeing some play in big mana Mono Green decks as well as Simic Mass Manipulation decks and Sultai Midrange decks, but she still isn't being played enough. If you're playing Green you should be taking a good, long look at Nissa, Who Shakes the World . A Moving Target These are some of the cards that can give you a huge leg up in the current Standard format. They are a direct reaction to current metagame trends and you will likely be seeing a lot of them going forward. Play them, or be ready to play against them. Don't forget that the Standard metagame is always a moving target, with this format being even more so than usual. Take time to notice the trends and why these cards are currently valued so high, so that when things shift again you can make similar deductions and pick out the next wave of cards who's value has risen due to shifts in the format. Watching and understanding these trends is what makes a good Standard player and deck-builder.
I've said my peace, 5,000 words of it fact , all about potential reprints for Modern Horizons . However, it's now time to get past the theoretical and get into what we will really be working with in Modern going forward. Don't forget that Modern Horizons also has new cards in it, and Wizards of the Coast wants these cards to see play. Well hold on to your hats, because today's preview card opens quite the can of worms! Pitch spells are back! There's a lot to say about what Force of Vigor means for Modern Horizons as a whole, but let's not get ahead of ourselves. It's pretty clear that Force of Vigor is not a maindeck card. Free spells are inherently a dangerous thing, so it makes sense to make them reactionary rather than proactive. Pitch spells serve to be an answer to a threat that is coming on too fast to handle by paying mana, or an answer you can play while still using your mana to further your own game plan. The downside is that while you save on mana, you lose out on a card. Force of Will is inherently card disadvantage; they cast Goblin Charbelcher , you use Force of Will and another card to stop it. They spent one card and some mana, you spent two cards. Of course, the good news is that you are still alive, and realistically your opponent probably spent a bunch of their resources to even cast the Charblecher. With so many powerful things available in Legacy this is why Force of Will is such an important catch all, but it sure does feel bad to have to Force of Will a Delver of Secrets or Tarmogoyf because in those fair matchups the card disadvantage really matters. Force of Vigor changes the math considerably, as you can kill two things with it instead of one. Trading two for two is much more palatable than two for one, making Force of Vigor a brutally efficient way to deal with multiple artifacts and enchantments. But of course, we're only really interested in Force of Vigor if we have that need. There's likely two ways Force of Vigor will be used, the first being as a splashy artifact/enchantment hate card in the vein of Shattestorm or Ancient Grudge . While you lose the ability to destroy everything, you gain the blowout potential of operating at instant speed while tapped out. The second is for decks that don't care about the extra card at all and are just looking for a cheap way to remove troublesome permanents so they can do their thing. Neoform Combo is a perfect candidate for this, as they just need to get that Grafdigger's Cage out of the way as cheaply and quickly as possible, card advantage be damned. The deck-building requirements for Force of Vigor are steep, as you need to want one of these two effects while also playing a good critical mass of Green cards, but if the requirements are met the payoff is high. Not a ton of decks are going to want Force of Vigor , but for the ones that do its impact will be substantial. It's important to note that Force of Vigor 's reach goes far beyond Modern. Force of Vigor is even better in Legacy, where troublesome cards like Chalice of the Void and Blood Moon are much more common. Because of the power level of Ancient Tomb and City of Traitors hateful artifacts are much more common, and not only that but they are much more effective because of the high density of one-mana spells and non-basic lands that are commonly played. Just imagine the look on your evil Mono-Red Prison opponent's face when you destroy his perfect draw of turn one Chalice of the Void , turn two Blood Moon with only two cards and no mana! Being able to destroy a Batterskull and Aether Vial at instant speed while tapped out sounds pretty nice too, as well as a multitude of other more niche applications. Once again though, finding a deck with enough of a critical mass of Green cards that wants the effect isn't going to be that common, but when Force of Vigor is cast the impact is going to be game breaking. There's more to Force of Vigor however than just the card itself, as it opens up the Pandora's box on a new cycle of pitch spells. Despite the name reference it is still very doubtful that Force of Will proper is in the set, but I wouldn't be surprised if there is some sort of variant as the Blue entry into the cycle. Note the "if it's not your turn" clause on Force of Vigor ; something like this on a Force of Will variant so you can't use it to protect your own spells makes a whole lot of sense. Here's my prediction: Force of Wherewithal Instant If it's not your turn, you may exile a blue card from your hand rather than pay Force of Wherewithal's mana cost. Counter target non-creature spell. (It turns out this was pretty close to the truth as Force of Negation is the same thing but at ) The long-standing complaint about Modern is that here just aren't enough answers for all the powerful things that people get to do. As such, the best thing to do is just pick something powerful and try and race whatever your opponent is doing. Wizards of the Coast has never had an opportunity to answer this complaint directly until now with Modern Horizons . Seeing a cycle of pitch spells does not surprise me, nor would I be surprised if the entire slant of the set was toward more fair and interactive strategies. The only question is how far does Wizards of the Coast want to tip the scales. Modern has been one of Magic 's most popular formats for a long time, making it a risky prospect to throw it into upheaval and turn it into "Legacy-lite" or something else that doesn't resemble where it's currently at. Well that's all for today; pardon me while I go ponder what the other three pitch spells are going to do. What do you think?
So! Many! Planeswalkers! War of the Spark Standard is rolling right along and the relative failure of Nexus of Fate so far has opened the door for all sorts of new midrange "Superfriend" style planeswalker decks. There's no doubting the power level of many of the new planeswalkers, and with many of them playing very well together and offering compounding static abilities that hamper your opponent's plans, there's never been a better time to create your own team of superheroes. So let's get started with four possible squads of Superfriends! Jeskai Superfriends | War Standard | Jim Davis Creatures (4) 4 Fblthp, the Lost Planeswalkers (19) 1 Ugin, the Ineffable 2 Dovin, Hand of Control 2 Kasmina, Enigmatic Mentor 2 Teferi, Hero of Dominaria 4 Narset, Parter of Veils 4 Sarkhan the Masterless 4 Teferi, Time Raveler Instants (6) 3 Shock 3 Spell Pierce Sorceries (3) 3 Deafening Clarion Enchantments (1) 1 Search for Azcanta Artifacts (2) 2 Mox Amber Lands (25) 1 Island 1 Clifftop Retreat 3 Sulfur Falls 4 Glacial Fortress 4 Hallowed Fountain 4 Interplanar Beacon 4 Sacred Foundry 4 Steam Vents Sideboard (15) 1 Spell Pierce 2 Search for Azcanta 1 Lava Coil 1 Deafening Clarion 4 Dovin's Veto 3 Prison Realm 2 Lyra Dawnbringer 1 The Wanderer Buy This Deck Export text format Export Arena format This deck has been bouncing around different player's streams for the last week, with I believe the genesis of the deck coming from MPL member John Rolf. There's no doubt that the first few weeks of War of the Spark Standard have been all about Teferi, Time Raveler and Narset, Parter of Veils . Each of these three-mana planeswalkers has card advantage built right in, but even more important is their passive abilities that restrict your opponent's actions drastically. Both of these walkers are a large reason why Nexus of Fate decks have floundered so far. Teferi, Time Raveler is great at clearing the board and getting you deeper into your deck, while also making sure that counterspells don't work against you and there are no awkward surprises in combat or at the end of your turn. We don't play many sorceries ourselves to give flash, but the one we do in Deafening Clarion is amazing on our opponent's turn. Narset, Parter of Veils is essentially a sorcery-speed Dig Through Time , a card that's currently banned in Modern and Legacy. Getting to dig four cards deep is amazing at finding you what you need, and even better her passive shuts down many of your opponent's card advantage engines. And of course, don't forget the powerhouse that is Teferi, Hero of Dominaria . Topping off this party is the awesome Sarkhan the Masterless . While Sarkhan is a great card on his own, when put him at the helm of a host of other planeswalkers he ascends to something even greater. It's hard to imagine Sarkhan wanting to hang out with the likes of clashing personalities like Dovin or Narset, but once they take to the skies as 4/4 dragons the game ends very quickly. Sarkhan produces threats, threatens planeswalkers, and most importantly closes the game out in a hurry. The support cast gets the job done, as both Dovin, Hand of Control and Kasmina, Enigmatic Mentor are surprisingly effective despite being uncommons. Shock and Spell Pierce are both in awesome spots in the metagame, and they pair up very well with Mox Amber and Fblthp, the Lost to bridge you to the early game. Spell Pierce in particular can either counter opposing planeswalkers or help defend yours, and you haven't lived until you've cast turn two or three Spell Pierce off a Mox Amber . Deafening Clarion keeps the board clear and Search for Azcanta keeps the gas flowing against slower decks. Of all of the Superfriends decks we're looking at today, Jeskai is the safest. Golgari Superfriends | War Standard | Jim Davis Creatures (19) 3 Evolution Sage 4 Jadelight Ranger 4 Llanowar Elves 4 Merfolk Branchwalker 4 Wildgrowth Walker Planeswalkers (11) 1 Davriel, Rogue Shadowmage 1 Karn, Scion of Urza 1 Ugin, the Ineffable 1 Vivien Reid 2 Liliana, Dreadhorde General 2 Vraska, Golgari Queen 3 Nissa, Who Shakes the World Instants (6) 1 Assassin's Trophy 2 Cast Down 3 Vraska's Contempt Lands (24) 5 Swamp 9 Forest 2 Field of Ruin 4 Overgrown Tomb 4 Woodland Cemetery Sideboard (15) 2 Davriel, Rogue Shadowmage 2 The Elderspell 2 Carnage Tyrant 4 Duress 2 Moment of Craving 3 Thrashing Brontodon Buy This Deck Export text format Export Arena format While Golgari Superfriends utilizes the popular explore package with Wildgrowth Walker and friends, make no mistake that this is a planeswalker deck through and through. Nissa, Who Shakes the World headlines this squad of heroes, with her ability to pump your mana secondary to her ability to create an army of neverending creatures. And they're not just 3/3s, they're much more as we will see. Liliana, Dreadhorde General is one of the most powerful cards in War of the Spark and a fairly obvious inclusion, but Vraska, Golgari Queen finally steps into the limelight and makes a major impact as well. While Vraska isn't the most powerful planeswalker, she has become much more useful in a format that revolves around 3 mana planeswalkers. Vraska excels at killing those dead, making her a welcome addition. But the real twist is the proliferate subtheme. Evolution Sage is a Magic card dripping with raw power. There's no limit to the proliferate mechanic, meaning each land drop can be adding a whole bunch of power and toughness to your board while also turbocharging your planeswalkers. This pumps up your explore creature squad, which is built around +1/+1 counters, pushes your planeswalkers toward their ultimates, and works unbelievably well with the creature lands that Nissa creates. Because they are sized with +1/+1 counters, they get to grow turn after turn as well. It's a great mix of both worlds, giving you the Golgari Midrange feel with a whole new twist. Purple People | War Standard | Jim Davis Creatures (4) 4 Fblthp, the Lost Planeswalkers (17) 1 Jace, Wielder of Mysteries 1 Karn, Scion of Urza 1 Ugin, the Ineffable 2 Dovin, Hand of Control 2 Kasmina, Enigmatic Mentor 2 Saheeli, Sublime Artificer 4 Narset, Parter of Veils 4 Sarkhan the Masterless Instants (13) 3 Shock 3 Spell Pierce 4 Opt 3 Jaya's Immolating Inferno Enchantments (1) 1 Search for Azcanta Artifacts (2) 2 Mox Amber Lands (23) 2 Mountain 5 Island 4 Interplanar Beacon 4 Mobilized District 4 Steam Vents 4 Sulfur Falls Sideboard (15) 2 Tibalt, Rakish Instigator 2 Fiery Cannonade 2 Lava Coil 2 Search for Azcanta 2 Disdainful Stroke 1 Spell Pierce 1 Ugin, the Ineffable 1 Ral, Izzet Viceroy 2 Entrancing Melody Buy This Deck Export text format Export Arena format What if we wanted to smooth out our mana base and gain access to the amazing Mobilized District as an additional threat that also attacked planeswalkers really well? Half Mutavault , half Treetop Village , Mobilized District is a very powerful creature land that has some significant deck-building requirements, namely a lot of legends. Luckily for us, we already want legends for Mox Amber and Jaya's Immolating Inferno and also already packed our deck full of planeswalkers. While staying only two colors loses us access to the pair of Teferis, it also gives us a much smoother mana base and there are plenty of other heroes waiting to step in. Saheeli, Sublime Artificer does a fantastic job of gumming up the ground and making threats, while also providing extra duty on huge Sarkhan attack turns by turning a servo into yet another dragon. She also plays amazingly well with Mox Amber , allowing you to make one or two tokens with her on turn three as you can play the Mox Amber and an Opt , Shock , or Spell Pierce for a huge tempo swing. Karn, Scion of Urza loves the artifacts while proving difficult to remove, with Jace, Wielder of Mysteries serving a similar role. Both Shock and Spell Pierce are very well positioned right now, with the format revolving around smaller value/mana/aggressive creatures and big planeswalker spells. Getting tempo in the early game so you can get the planeswalker train rolling is extremely important and both cards do a great job of that while playing awesome with Mox Amber . The big payoff however is the forgotten Jaya's Immolating Inferno . Before War of the Spark the legendary sorceries were too risky to possibly leave stranded in your hand, but with so many planeswalkers and Fblthp's help it is now very easy to Flame Wave your opponent's board. I'm a big fan of this one. Command the Superfriends | War Standard | Jim Davis Creatures (16) 2 Massacre Girl 2 Paradise Druid 4 Jadelight Ranger 4 Merfolk Branchwalker 4 Wildgrowth Walker Planeswalkers (13) 2 Teferi, Hero of Dominaria 3 Vraska, Golgari Queen 4 Tamiyo, Collector of Tales 4 Teferi, Time Raveler Sorceries (4) 4 Command the Dreadhorde Lands (27) 1 Drowned Catacomb 1 Godless Shrine 1 Isolated Chapel 1 Sunpetal Grove 2 Watery Grave 3 Breeding Pool 3 Hinterland Harbor 3 Temple Garden 4 Interplanar Beacon 4 Overgrown Tomb 4 Woodland Cemetery Sideboard (15) 2 Cast Down 3 Duress 2 Kraul Harpooner 2 Narset, Parter of Veils 2 Ritual of Soot 2 The Elderspell 2 Thrashing Brontodon Buy This Deck Export text format Export Arena format Our last superfriends deck is the most wild and I believe was originally conceived by Stanislav Cifka and Ivan Floch. Yes, once again we see the good old explore Wildgrowth Walker package, however this time we're using the boatloads of life we gain for a very different reason: Bring back all the planeswalkers! (and creatures too!) Okay, maybe not all of them, but realistically are all of them really necessary? Spending six mana to add a number of planeswalkers or powerful creatures to the battlefield is an exciting proposition and will end the game in your favor most of the time. With your opponent needing to deal with Wildgrowth Walker and your planeswalkers you should have life to spare, and your planeswalkers help to work to get you to that end. Once again we see Teferi, Time Raveler helping to keep the board clear and protect you from counterspells, this time teaming up alongside Vraska, Golgari Queen who is also killing things and buying time. However, the real planeswalker prize is Tamiyo, Collector of Tales . Tamiyo does basically everything this deck wants. She helps to find Command the Dreadhorde , she helps to fill your graveyard, she distracts your opponent to conserve your life, and she can buy back valuable Wildgrowth Walker s to make sure you have enough life for a powerful Command the Dreadhorde . That's a lot of value for a four-mana package! The mana is held together with dual lands and Interplaner Beacon , another cog in the lifegain puzzle to ensure good castings of Command the Dreadhorde . And of course, the explore creatures also help to ensure you find the lands that you need. One thing to consider is adding The Wanderer to the sideboard, as not only does she help protect you against Red decks and big Green decks, but if you cast Command the Dreadhorde with her in play you can get everything back as you take zero damage. If there's going to be a combo deck in Standard, I'd sure rather it look like this than Simic Nexus. Kryptonite It's a good thing Wizards of the Coast packed "break in case of emergency" box into War of the Spark ! Planeswalkers are the future of current Standard. We've never seen a format like this, so make sure you are prepared. Either be bringing your own planeswalkers, or having a very good plan for dealing with your opponent's planeswalkers. Burn spells that can target planeswalkers go up in value, haste goes up in value, as well as hard removal that can target planeswalkers like Bedevil . Playing a card like Lava Coil right now is very risky! And of course, if things get too crazy don't be afraid to break the glass and kill 'em all .
War of the Spark has already had a major impact on Modern. Many of the new planeswalkers are seeing play across various decks, with Karn, the Great Creator the big standout. However, the most wild card is a Simic uncommon that is nothing more than a single Birthing Pod activation. Birthing Pod is banned for a reason. Neoform has combined with the forgotten Coldsnap rare Allosaurus Rider to make putting Griselbrand into play as early as turn one a very real thing. Once Griselbrand is in play you follow a similar script to the Goryo's Vengeance decks and use Nourishing Shoal to gain life, which in turn turns into more cards, and you rinse/repeat until you draw your entire deck and kill your opponent with Lightning Storm or Laboratory Maniac . Whoa. Time Stamps: Match 1 - 00:06:36 Match 2 - 00:25:06 Match 3 - 00:42:08 Match 4 - 01:00:14 Match 5 - 01:12:47 Neoform Combo | Modern | Jim Davis Creatures (18) 1 Laboratory Maniac 1 Wild Cantor 2 Autochthon Wurm 2 Griselbrand 4 Allosaurus Rider 4 Chancellor of the Tangle 4 Simian Spirit Guide Instants (15) 1 Lightning Storm 1 Noxious Revival 2 Manamorphose 3 Dissenter's Deliverance 4 Nourishing Shoal 4 Summoner's Pact Sorceries (12) 4 Eldritch Evolution 4 Neoform 4 Serum Visions Lands (15) 1 Island 2 Breeding Pool 4 Botanical Sanctum 4 Gemstone Mine 4 Yavimaya Coast Sideboard (15) 3 Chalice of the Void 2 Defense Grid 2 Engineered Explosives 2 Leyline of Sanctity 1 Pact of Negation 1 Pongify 1 Rapid Hybridization 3 Spell Pierce Buy This Deck Export text format In its present state, this deck certainly feels similar to how Goblin Charbelcher decks feel in Legacy - capable of killing on turn one or two, but ultimately fragile against strong interaction. Still, the power level present here is undeniable. We had a good number of turn two and three kills, and were very close to a turn one kill in that last game. The deck is going to need to learn how to adapt to the various forms of interaction and hate cards that can be leveled against it, but make no mistake this deck is much more frightening than previous Griselbrand decks that use Goryo's Vengeance as their engine. Not using the graveyard, and thus not being vulnerable to Surgical Extraction / Leyline of the Void /etc, is a huge plus. It's not there yet, but there's something very scary brewing here.
Our first big Standard event with War of the Spark is now behind us. SCG Richmond gave us a glimpse into what the future of Standard is going to look like going forward and it was a bit of a mixed bag. Simic Nexus loomed over the entire event, and while it didn't dominate, its presence was heavily felt. Decks unable to compete with Simic Nexus were non-starters, and Mono-Red Aggro went on to have a great day backed partly by an excellent matchup with Nexus of Fate decks. Esper Control also had a great day, showing that success week one was seen on the polar ends of the format. Today we're gonna grade War of the Spark planeswalkers based on how they looked in Richmond, paving the way from our pre-tournament expectations to post-tournament reality. Grade: D Ah yes, the dragon of the hour. The big baddie. Thanos himself. Unfortunately Nicol Bolas was largely absent from SCG Richmond. With the format so heavily polarized between Nexus of Fate , Esper Control, and Mono-Red Aggro, that doesn't leave much room for midrange decks to breathe. The tools you need to compete against each deck are very different, and for every Enter The God-Eternals you add to help beat aggressive decks you have an extra dead card against Control and Nexus. Midrange decks can also struggle to put up enough of a clock to stop Control or Nexus decks before they reach their endgame, leaving most Grixis decks to fall flat. This is less an indictment on Nicol Bolas as a card itself, and more so just a reaction to his place in the metagame. There's no doubt that Nicol Bolas is one of the most powerful cards in War of the Spark , but the metagame is currently very hostile toward him. That is, of course, until things shift as they always do. Grade: B+ While the larger planeswalkers didn't have a great day in Richmond, the smaller ones did exceptionally well. Narset, Parter of Veils had a big day for a pair of reasons. It turns out Dig Through Time is still great, even if half of it is on suspend. Narset's ability to dig deep and find the right card while also providing card advantage proved a boon to both Esper Control decks as well as Nexus of Fate decks. While not a card you can play in high numbers due to it being a bit slow an unwieldy, Narset was nonetheless an import cog in Richmond. But the card draw of course is not the only draw to Narset. Narset's static ability is very powerful against both control and Nexus of Fate decks, providing a difficult to remove annoyance that provides real card advantage as well as virtual card advantage. Narset is still probably better suited for older formats, but will big a serious player in Standard going forward. Grade: B- While I didn't end up finishing well with my planeswalker-centric Gruul Aggro deck , it was to no fault of my powerful trio of planeswalkers; a shaky mana base and too many matches against Esper Control did that. Sarkhan the Masterless was an awesome threat that provided immediate board presence, defended decently against go wide decks, and quickly put away games where you already had a planeswalker in play. Ramping any decent curve into Sarkhan was often lights out. The problem is that Sarkhan lines up very poorly against both Absorb and Nexus of Fate , both cards that were running amok at SCG Richmond. Against control decks with counterspells Sarkhan is a five-mana liability, and if you are behind on cards they can just use two separate cards to kill the Dragon token and Sarkhan himself, as he has no form of protection when he is a creature. While attacking for eight the following turn is nice, Sarkhan was also often too slow to get to a Nexus of Fate player before they started to do their thing. As such, Sarkhan is currently a good planeswalker without a home. Grade: A- Baby Teferi follows a similar story arc to Narset, Parter of Veils ; solid effect for three mana and decent source of card advantage, but most importantly very punishing to the top decks in the format. Both Esper Control and Nexus of Fate decks hate to see Teferi, Time Raveler on the other side of the board, as it throws a major wrench into their plans. By turning off counterspells, the ability to play at instant speed, and Wilderness Reclamation while also being fairly annoying to remove if you don't have any creatures, Teferi, Time Raveler is a great foil to many of the format's top decks. Of course, like Narset it also feels pretty anemic against aggressive Red and White decks. Still Teferi had a huge day in Richmond, playing a role in both Esper Control as well as Esper Midrange, while also spearheading the Team Nova Bant Midrange deck that put two players into Top 8. While Teferi is a somewhat polarizing card depending on what the matchup is, Repulse isn't that bad of a fail state in matchups where he is poor. Grade: B Three-mana planeswalkers everywhere! Vivien, Champion of the Wilds wasn't everywhere in Richmond, but with a full playset found in the breakout Bant Midrange deck she needs to be looked at more closely. Vivien asks a lot. She must be played in a deck with a large critical mass of creatures, and not only that there has to be some sort of instant speed element to the deck or her flash static ability doesn't really matter that much - if your deck is all Steel Leaf Champion and Nullhide Ferox you're not fooling anyone. Your opponents won't attack into your open mana and will expect you to play something big on their end step. By introducing elements like Frilled Mystic and mana sinks like Growth-Chamber Guardian and Shalai, Voice of Plenty you at least present a number of options. Vivien also plays well with Teferi, severely limited your opponent's timing options while maximizing yours. Vivien certainly needs a specific deck to succeed, but it looks like that deck has already been found. Grade: C- As they say, context is everything. Liliana, Dreadhorde General has all the makings of an absurd Standard card. She is highly reminiscent of Elspeth, Sun's Champion and was on many top player's "best cards in the set" lists. So what happened? Frankly, Liliana is a victim of context. If all of your opponents are playing Absorb , Nexus of Fate , or Goblin Chainwhirler , Liliana is underwhelming. She's not a very fast clock, if she can be removed or countered cleanly you don't gain a ton when you cast her, and Nexus of Fate doesn't care about 2/2s or card advantage. Liliana will eventually rise, but the format is extremely hostile toward her at the moment. Grade: C+ Amusingly, it was another sic-mana planeswalker that saw a little more time in the Richmond spotlight: Ugin, the Ineffable . While Ugin seems to compare unfavorably to Liliana in the raw power department, he has one huge advantage- if your opponent isn't playing creatures and instead relying on non-creature permanents like planeswalkers or enchantments as a major part of their gameplan then Ugin can come down and help break that up. Again context is everything, and in the context of the present Control/Nexus/Mono-Red format Ugin is surprisingly more impactful. Grade: B+ Speaking of context, take a quick look at the SCG Richmond winning list: Mono-Red Aggro | War Standard | Will Pulliam, 1st Place SCG Richmond Creatures (20) 4 Fanatical Firebrand 4 Ghitu Lavarunner 4 Goblin Chainwhirler 4 Runaway Steam-Kin 4 Viashino Pyromancer Planeswalkers (4) 4 Chandra, Fire Artisan Instants (10) 2 Wizard's Lightning 4 Lightning Strike 4 Shock Sorceries (6) 2 Skewer the Critics 4 Light Up the Stage Lands (20) 20 Mountain Sideboard (15) 2 Dire Fleet Daredevil 4 Lava Coil 2 Legion Warboss 2 Rekindling Phoenix 3 Risk Factor 2 Tibalt, Rakish Instigator Buy This Deck Export text format Export Arena format Where are the Experimental Frenzies!? Experimental Frenzy has been the staple card in Mono-Red Aggro since its inception, and is definitely a more powerful card in a vacuum than Chandra, Fire Artisan . The problem again is that contextually Experimental Frenzy struggles in this specific format in ways that Chandra, Fire Artisan does not. The format is extremely ready for another four-mana enchantment, Wilderness Reclamation , and that splash damage hits Experimental Frenzy as well; Mortify , Teferi, Time Raveler , Knight of Autumn , Trashing Brontodon , Return to Nature , etc. Chandra was the highlight of my Gruul deck as well, and there were a few Gruul decks in day two that were playing her that did well. Chandra isn't as explosive, but she's a very powerful planeswalker for any aggressive deck. Extra Credit With so many more planeswalkers to explore, we're still barely scratching the surface of War of the Spark Standard. Maybe you saw Teyo, the Shieldmage in play on camera in the hands of Ben Ragen? Who saw that one coming? It's going to be interesting to see how the format evolves in the wake of SCG Richmond. The Nexus of Fate /Mono-Red Aggro/ Esper Control trifecta is a tough one to beat with everything, but new brews like the Bant Midrange deck give us hope that it can be beaten. The rules are laid out; it's time to start trying to break them.
Gruul Aggro has been a part of Standard for a while now, but it's not really a true Gruul Monsters deck. With the mana base skewed so hard to play Goblin Chainwhirler , the deck feels more like a Mono-Red deck with a splash of Green than anything else, and plays out accordingly. However, Goblin Chainwhirler isn't very effective against Nexus of Fate , Nicol Bolas, Dragon-God , or Teferi, Hero of Dominaria . The time of Goblin Chainwhirler has passed, the time of Llanowar Elves is back again. Going fast is very important in this format. You must be able to get under the Nexus of Fate decks as well as the control and midrange decks, while being able to keep up with the aggressive decks. Sitting back isn't an option. There's no faster card to play on turn one than Llanowar Elves , and with a suite of new great Red planeswalkers we are off to the races. Time Stamps : Match 1 - 00:05:43 Match 2 - 00:25:43 Match 3 - 00:43:55 Match 4 - 01:03:09 Match 5 - 01:16:15 Ahhhh!!! Gruul Monsters | War Standard | Jim Davis Creatures (23) 1 Dire Fleet Daredevil 3 Legion Warboss 3 Paradise Druid 4 Growth-Chamber Guardian 4 Gruul Spellbreaker 4 Llanowar Elves 4 Rekindling Phoenix Planeswalkers (7) 2 Chandra, Fire Artisan 2 Domri, Anarch of Bolas 3 Sarkhan the Masterless Instants (6) 2 Lightning Strike 4 Shock Lands (24) 8 Forest 8 Mountain 4 Rootbound Crag 4 Stomping Ground Sideboard (15) 4 Lava Coil 2 Kraul Harpooner 1 Thrashing Brontodon 2 Carnage Tyrant 4 Cindervines 1 Legion Warboss 1 Dire Fleet Daredevil Buy This Deck Export text format Export Arena format The new planeswalkers are great! They're all powerful, aggressive, and most importantly durable, giving your opponent fits when you assemble a board quickly and top it off with a planeswalker. Sarkhan tops off extremely well, and if you ever cast him with a planeswalker already in play you are off to the races. We never got to do it, but the turn one Llanowar Elves , turn two Domri, turn three Sarkhan curve is quite impressive. With excellent sideboard cards like Cindervines , Lava Coil , and Kraul Harpooner , Gruul can handle most things throw at it. As I said in the video I'd like a little more as far as anti-aggro cards go, and surprisingly Tibalt, Rakish Instigator fits the bill pretty well as a double Footlight Fiend that's also playable against control. Thrashing Brontodon is also on the menu as a large creature that can deal with either Experimental Frenzy or Wilderness Reclamation . This video was recorded on the Friday before SCG Richmond so nothing is set yet, but this is currently my frontrunner for what I will be playing in the event. Hopefully you're here because I won it!
Throne of Eldraine is right around the corner and I personally can't wait for it to get here. I'm ready for a Standard shake up and this time we're not only getting a new set but also a rotation. It's important to revaluate cards that ask you to build around them from older sets and from Throne of Eldraine as they have the potential to build completely new archetypes and decks. I have the pleasure of revealing Coolstuff's preview card, courtesy of Wizards of the Coast, and it's most definitely a build around me card. World, meet Irencrag Pyromancer . This Pyromancer asks you to heavily build around it as it is not going to do any damage by attacking and you can't just jam here in your Mono-Red aggressive deck. It definitely fits better in a shell where you can draw multiple cards, probably alongside Arclight Phoenix . Having four toughness is big game as it dodges a lot of cheap removal outside of Lava Coil . However, the most important part is that three damage she deals and it is to any target. Imagine casting Opt to kill your opponent's creature on your turn or to kill a planeswalker. You can then cast Chemister's Insight on your opponent's turn and get another free Lightning Bolt . I can promise you it is not going to take many free Lightning Bolt s to take over the game. The one drawback is going to be an opposing Narset as that will shut off your draw engine completely, so make sure to be packing some Shock s or some ways to deal with Narset, Parter of Veils . I'm not going to build a deck just yet with Irencrag Pyromancer as we are missing a good number of cards from the set. So, instead I want to discuss cards that are potential inclusions for a deck with Irencrag Pyromancer . Bag of Holding , Chemister's Insight , Radical Idea , Opt , The Royal Scions , Crackling Drake , Spectral Sailor , Discovery // Dispersal , Expansion // Explosion , Niv-Mizzet, Parun , Fblthp, the Lost , Growth Spiral , Honor the God-Pharaoh , Teferi, Time Raveler , Jace, Wielder of Mysteries , Gadwick, the Wizened , and Commence the Endgame are all just a few that are only in Izzet colors. We can also combine it with Torbran, Thane of Red Fell so she pings for 5 damage at a time if you want to get spicy. The Magic Mirror is a card we could run a singleton of, but just like Firemind's Research , it gets shut down hard by Teferi, Time Raveler . Final Thoughts This card has potential, especially in an Arclight Phoenix deck. We just need a Tormenting Voice replacement and Merchant of the Vale isn't a bad one. The popularity of Narset will determine if this card sees play as Narset will just completely shut down drawing extra cards. I'll be brewing around this once we get all the cards for Throne of Eldraine , since it allows me to durdle and kill my opponent at the same time. What's better than that? Remember, preordering a box of Throne of Eldraine at coolstuffinc.com gets you an Ali Aintrazi Wolf tolken, aka the best token in the world. Grab your boxes early and use code Ali5 to get 5% off your order! As Always, thanks for reading! Ali Aintrazi Follow me @AliEldrazi Twitch Channel Think Twice MTG Podcast
Time Stamps : Match 1 - 00:02:07 Match 2 - 00:05:16 Match 3 - 00:10:15 Match 4 - 00:15:29 Match 5 - 00:18:29 Match 6 - 00:19:47 Match 7 - 00:27:18 Match 8 - 00:30:58 Golos New Standard | New Standard | Ali Aintrazi Creatures (18) 1 End-Raze Forerunners 1 Yarok, the Desecrated 2 Agent of Treachery 2 Massacre Girl 4 Golos, Tireless Pilgrim 4 Hydroid Krasis 4 Risen Reef Planeswalkers (1) 1 Liliana, Dreadhorde General Instants (4) 4 Growth Spiral Sorceries (5) 1 Quasiduplicate 4 Circuitous Route Artifacts (3) 3 Chromatic Lantern Lands (29) 1 Forest 1 Island 1 Mountain 1 Swamp 1 Hallowed Fountain 1 Izzet Guildgate 1 Orzhov Guildgate 1 Rakdos Guildgate 1 Sacred Foundry 1 Selesnya Guildgate 1 Simic Guildgate 1 Steam Vents 1 Stomping Ground 1 Temple Garden 1 Temple of Epiphany 1 Temple of Malady 1 Temple of Silence 1 Thornwood Falls 1 Watery Grave 2 Breeding Pool 2 Gateway Plaza 2 Temple of Mystery 4 Field of the Dead Buy This Deck Export text format Export Arena format
Today I decided to play a brew around the card that just recently got unbanned, that's right, Rampaging Ferocidon ! Okay, you can't really brew around this card but with rotation coming up, I wanted to play something I don't usually play and just netdecked (forgive me) a dinosaur list. This one happens to be Taruto1212's list! Time Stamps: Match 1 - 00:01:28 Match 2 - 00:08:17 Match 3 - 00:18:38 Match 4 - 00:33:50 Match 5 - 00:42:29 Match 6 - 00:58:03 Jund Dinosaurs | Core Set 2020 Standard | Taruto1212 Creatures (29) 2 Rampaging Ferocidon 2 Shifting Ceratops 3 Ghalta, Primal Hunger 3 Otepec Huntmaster 3 Regisaur Alpha 4 Llanowar Elves 4 Marauding Raptor 4 Ripjaw Raptor 4 Rotting Regisaur Planeswalkers (1) 1 Domri, Anarch of Bolas Sorceries (7) 3 Savage Stomp 4 Commune with Dinosaurs Lands (23) 5 Forest 1 Woodland Cemetery 2 Dragonskull Summit 3 Rootbound Crag 4 Blood Crypt 4 Overgrown Tomb 4 Stomping Ground Sideboard (13) 2 Rampaging Ferocidon 4 Duress 3 Lava Coil 2 Shifting Ceratops 2 Fry Buy This Deck Export text format Export Arena format Overall, I thought the deck was fun, especially when we got to smash face with Ghalta. It might be right to play 4 Ghalta and no Regisaur Alpha as that card was underwhelming. I also can not recommend crafting this deck on MTG Arena has so many cards to rotate very soon. If you want to see Ghalta smash some faces as early as turn four, then you'll enjoy the video! Ali Aintrazi Follow me @AliEldrazi Twitch Channel Think Twice MTG Podcast
Time Stamps : Draft - 00:01:09 Game 1 - 00:09:57 Game 2 - 00:15:30 Game 3 - 00:19:09 Game 4 - 00:23:19 Game 5 - 00:27:18 Game 6 - 00:36:22 Game 7 - 00:39:38 Game 8 - 00:42:19 Omniscience Draft Deck | Limited | Ali Aintrazi Creatures (14) 1 Dragon Mage 1 Fire Elemental 1 Fortress Crab 1 Ripscale Predator 1 Sage's Row Denizen 1 Scampering Scorcher 2 Gruesome Scourger 2 Meteor Golem 2 Octoprophet 2 Stone Golem Instants (14) 1 Bladebrand 1 Uncaged Fury 1 Unsummon 2 Inspired Charge 4 Anticipate 5 Bone to Ash Sorceries (4) 1 Drawn from Dreams 1 Planar Cleansing 2 Duress Enchantments (7) 1 Angelic Gift 1 Gauntlets of Light 1 Maniacal Rage 2 Season of Growth 2 Unholy Indenture Artifacts (1) 1 Portal of Sanctuary Buy This Deck Export text format
Hey everyone! Today you all get to see me play in the Fandom Legends event I participated in last week. This is a past broadcast from my twitch channel, www.twitch.tv/alieldrazi . We take a Golos deck to a competitive event with competitive players and finish... Highly with it. I've been working on Golos for about three to four weeks now and I'm pretty happy with this finish after I've committed so much time to it. I think it's a very fun deck and one that will last after rotation. Here's the decklist! Time Stamps : Round 1 - 00:00:21 Round 2 - 00:50:45 Round 3 - 01:25:07 Round 4 - 01:40:23 Round 5 - 02:11:34 Quarterfinals - 02:32:15 Semifinals - 03:04:46 Finals - 03:32:11 Five-Color Golos | Core Set 2020 Standard | Ali Aintrazi Creatures (18) 2 Massacre Girl 4 Elvish Rejuvenator 4 Golos, Tireless Pilgrim 4 Hydroid Krasis 4 Risen Reef Instants (8) 4 Growth Spiral 4 Nexus of Fate Sorceries (4) 4 Circuitous Route Lands (30) 1 Forest 1 Island 1 Swamp 1 Arch of Orazca 1 Dimir Guildgate 1 Drowned Catacomb 1 Gateway Plaza 1 Godless Shrine 1 Gruul Guildgate 1 Hallowed Fountain 1 Orzhov Guildgate 1 Overgrown Tomb 1 Simic Guildgate 1 Temple of Epiphany 1 Temple of Malady 1 Temple of Silence 1 Temple of Triumph 1 Thornwood Falls 1 Watery Grave 1 Woodland Cemetery 2 Breeding Pool 2 Hinterland Harbor 2 Temple of Mystery 4 Field of the Dead Sideboard (15) 2 Agent of Treachery 3 Cerulean Drake 2 Legion's End 2 Liliana, Dreadhorde General 2 Narset, Parter of Veils 2 Noxious Grasp 1 Yarok, the Desecrated 1 Zacama, Primal Calamity Buy This Deck Export text format Export Arena format I don't want to spoil anything in case you haven't seen the video, but this deck is pretty dang good. It really wants a Farseek or Rampant Growth over Risen Reef but we don't have access to a two-mana ramp spell that gets a land outside of Thunderherd Migration which we can't really play without making major changes. I really like the main deck but Risen Reef and Massacre Girl are flex slots and the Sideboard can easily be changed to accommodate what meta you expect to face. I predicted the meta a little wrong as I didn't run into as many vampire / Mono-Red decks as I expected so the Cerulean Drake and to a lesser extent the Legion's End kind of rotted in my Sideboard. Just some quick tips about the Sideboard, I usually only bring in Zacama when I am cutting Nexus of Fate s, this is usually against aggressive decks. My plan against aggressive decks is to trim Nexus and Reefs for Zacama, Agent of Treachery , Liliana, Yarok, and sometimes Legion's End . You'll be able to see how I sideboard against the biggest decks in the format if you watch the video gameplay. You usually don't change the deck too drastically just because you tend to be a combo deck late in the game. The longer the game goes, the closer you get to Nexus loop with Golos. Ashiok isn't even that great against us since if they minus Ashiok they just get us closer to Nexus Looping. Well, that's the article for today. I am very happy and proud of this deck and I can't wait to see where it goes after Throne of Eldraine as the deck doesn't lose that much. We just need some big crazy spell to replace Nexus of Fate , it doesn't even have to take extra turns. Just needs to do some huge effect. As always, thanks for reading and have a great weekend! Ali Aintrazi Follow me @AliEldrazi Twitch Channel Think Twice MTG Podcast
Time Stamps Match 1 - 00:01:54 Match 2 - 00:11:23 Match 3 - 00:14:56 Match 4 - 00:17:06 Match 5 - 00:22:07 Match 6 - 00:26:34 Match 7 - 00:31:43 Match 8 - 00:47:34 Match 9 - 00:49:44 Grixis Artifacts | Best of One Standard | Ali Aintrazi Creatures (4) 2 Jhoira, Weatherlight Captain 2 Sai, Master Thopterist Planeswalkers (14) 2 Ugin, the Ineffable 3 Karn, the Great Creator 3 Narset, Parter of Veils 3 Saheeli, Sublime Artificer 3 Tezzeret, Master of the Bridge Sorceries (4) 4 Ritual of Soot Artifacts (14) 2 Manifold Key 2 Mystic Forge 3 Gilded Lotus 3 Mox Amber 4 Powerstone Shard Lands (24) 1 Swamp 2 Island 1 Blood Crypt 1 Dragonskull Summit 3 Drowned Catacomb 4 Steam Vents 4 Sulfur Falls 4 Watery Grave 4 Zhalfirin Void Sideboard (15) 1 Sorcerous Spyglass 1 Transmogrifying Wand 2 Guardians of Koilos 1 God-Pharaoh's Statue 1 Mystic Forge 3 Navigator's Compass 1 Bolas's Citadel 1 Silent Gravestone 1 Thaumatic Compass 1 Helm of the Host 1 Orazca Relic 1 Mox Amber Buy This Deck Export text format Export Arena format
Time Stamps : Match 1 - 00:01:23 Match 2 - 00:09:16 Match 3 - 00:15:53 Match 4 - 00:18:16 Match 5 - 00:32:45 Match 6 - 00:37:42 Big Blue | Best of One Standard | Ali Aintrazi Planeswalkers (10) 2 Ugin, the Ineffable 4 Karn, the Great Creator 4 Narset, Parter of Veils Sorceries (14) 2 Mass Manipulation 4 Callous Dismissal 4 Finale of Revelation 4 Flood of Tears Artifacts (11) 3 Manifold Key 4 Gilded Lotus 4 Powerstone Shard Lands (25) 15 Island 3 Temple of Epiphany 3 Temple of Mystery 4 Interplanar Beacon Sideboard (15) 2 Meteor Golem 1 Chaos Wand 1 Chromatic Lantern 1 Colossus Hammer 1 Grafdigger's Cage 1 Helm of the Host 1 Manifold Key 1 Mox Amber 2 God-Pharaoh's Statue 2 Navigator's Compass 2 Sorcerous Spyglass Buy This Deck Export text format Export Arena format Follow Ali Aintrazi on Twitch and Twitter! http://www.twitch.tv/AliEldrazi http://www.twitter.com/AliEldrazi
Time Stamps: Match 1 - 00:01:53 Match 2 - 00:05:50 Match 3 - 00:21:11 Match 4 - 00:24:59 Match 5 - 00:31:21 Match 6 - 00:46:50 Match 7 - 00:55:57 Match 8 - 01:05:01 Match 9 - 01:06:54 Match 10 - 01:34:34 Match 11 - 01:43:33 Kykar's Angels | Best of One Standard | Ali Aintrazi Creatures (11) 3 Kykar, Wind's Fury 4 Bishop of Wings 4 Resplendent Angel Planeswalkers (8) 4 Narset, Parter of Veils 4 Teferi, Time Raveler Instants (3) 3 Shock Sorceries (9) 2 Banefire 3 Lava Coil 4 Drawn from Dreams Enchantments (4) 4 Arcane Adaptation Lands (25) 1 Temple of Triumph 4 Clifftop Retreat 4 Glacial Fortress 4 Hallowed Fountain 4 Sacred Foundry 4 Steam Vents 4 Sulfur Falls Buy This Deck Export text format Export Arena format Follow Ali Aintrazi on Twitch and Twitter! http://www.twitch.tv/AliEldrazi http://www.twitter.com/AliEldrazi
Welcome back everyone, todays best of three videos will be Temur Elementals. It's not your traditional list though, we are also playing Flood of Tears and Omniscience for a combo finish in case the game goes long or you just turbo ramp with your Risen Reefs. If you like elementals or just want to play another Flood of Tears deck, you should check this one out! Time Stamps : Match 1 - 00:01:54 Match 2 - 00:22:05 Match 3 - 01:13:12 Match 4 - 01:27:53 Match 5 - 02:00:25 Match 6 - 02:15:08 Temur Elementals | Core Set 2020 Standard | Ali Aintrazi Creatures (24) 4 Cavalier of Thorns 4 Hydroid Krasis 4 Leafkin Druid 4 Llanowar Elves 4 Omnath, Locus of the Roil 4 Risen Reef Planeswalkers (2) 2 Tamiyo, Collector of Tales Instants (3) 3 Growth Spiral Sorceries (5) 2 Lava Coil 3 Flood of Tears Enchantments (1) 1 Omniscience Lands (25) 4 Forest 3 Rootbound Crag 3 Steam Vents 3 Temple of Mystery 4 Breeding Pool 4 Hinterland Harbor 4 Stomping Ground Sideboard (15) 3 Aether Gust 2 Lava Coil 3 Cindervines 2 Flame Sweep 3 Shifting Ceratops 2 Chandra, Awakened Inferno Buy This Deck Export text format Export Arena format Again, you're essentially a Temur Elementals deck with a combo finish. The combo being Omniscience in play, Flood of Tears in hand or in your graveyard, and having a Tamiyo, Collector of Tales . This will allow you to cast Flood of Tears putting Omniscience into play, then playing Tamiyo and regrowing Flood of Tears , then play whatever else you have in your hand and rinse and repeat. You'll have infinite draw with Risen Reef s and Infinite Damage with Omnath, Locus of the Roil . When you bring in Chandra, Awakened Inferno you are also able to make infinite Chandra emblems. We do all this a couple of times in the video if you are confused about how it works or want to see it in action! That's it for today, hope you have a wonderful week and if you play any of these decks and you enjoy them, tweet at me! I love hearing about people enjoying my decks at FNM or wherever you may take them! As always thanks for reading, Ali Aintrazi Follow me @AliEldrazi Twitch Channel Think Twice MTG Podcast
Time Stamps: Match 1 - 00:02:03 Match 2 - 00:11:43 Match 3 - 00:14:12 Match 4 - 00:22:25 Match 5 - 00:34:17 Match 6 - 00:38:26 Orzhov Aristocrats | Best of One Standard | Ali Aintrazi Creatures (17) 1 Cavalier of Night 4 Gutterbones 4 Lazotep Reaver 4 Priest of Forgotten Gods 4 Reassembling Skeleton Planeswalkers (8) 2 Ajani, Adversary of Tyrants 2 Liliana, Dreadhorde General 4 Sorin, Vengeful Bloodlord Sorceries (6) 3 Bankrupt in Blood 3 Kaya's Wrath Enchantments (2) 1 Divine Visitation 1 Open the Graves Artifacts (3) 3 Desecrated Tomb Lands (24) 4 Plains 8 Swamp 4 Godless Shrine 4 Isolated Chapel 4 Temple of Silence Buy This Deck Export text format Export Arena format Follow Ali Aintrazi on Twitch and Twitter! http://www.twitch.tv/AliEldrazi http://www.twitter.com/AliEldrazi
